 
Monetary Policy Report  December  2019 
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
December  2019 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Kanit Sangsubhan  Member  
Mr. Subhak Siwaraksa  Member  
Mr. Somchai Jitsuchon  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  December  2019 
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 9. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardizing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reas ons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report December  2019  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  4 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions for trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Oil prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ............................  10 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ........................  10 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
BOX : Thailand’s household debt composition and implications on financial positions  
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ........  23 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
3. Monetary Policy  Decision  ................................ ................................ .................  30 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
BOX : Monetary policy target for the medium -term horizon and for 2020  
BOX : Measures to manage the baht and capital flows in 2019  
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  40 
4.1 Table s ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  40 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Data  Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  44 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   
Note: Data in this report is as of December 17, 2019 ( one day before the Monetary Policy Committee meeting)   
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               1 Executive Summary  
Monetary Policy Conduct in the Fourth  Quarter of 2019  
The Thai economy was expected to expand at a lower rate than previous ly assessed and below potential 
due mainly  to a decline in exports which affected employment and domestic demand. Headline inflation in 
2019 was projected to be lower than previous ly assessed  and below the lower bound of the inflation target. 
Nonetheless, economic growth and inflation were expecte d to gradually improve in 2020. Financial stability 
risks had already been addressed to some extent, although there remained pockets of risks that might pose 
vulnerabilities to financial stability in the future. The Committee voted 5 to 2 to cut the policy  rate by 0.25 
percentage point from 1.50 to 1.25 percent at the meeting on November 6, 2019 and voted 
unanimously to maintain the policy rate at 1.25 percent at the meeting on December 18, 2019.  At the 
most recent meeting, the Committee viewed that accommo dative monetary policy stance following two 
policy rate cuts in the recent period would support economic growth and the rise of headline inflation toward 
target. The Thai baht movements were two -way and more in line with regional currencies. However, the 
Committee remained  concerned about baht appreciation against trading partner currencies, and thus saw 
the need to continue to closely monitor developments of exchange rates and capital flows amid elevated 
uncertainties. Moreover, the Committee would monito r the effectiveness of the relaxation of foreign 
exchange regulations to encourage capital outflows and would also  consider implementing additional 
measures  if necessary . To ensure financial stability in the period ahead, the Committee viewed that the 
policy rate, microprudential  measures,  macroprudential measures , as well as  structural policy such as debt 
restructuring, should be used jointly in an appropriate and well-targeted  manner .  
Looking ahead, the Committee would be data -dependent by closely monitoring the developments of the 
outlook for growth, inflation, and financial stability, together with associated risks, in deliberating appropriate 
monetary policy going forward. The Committee would stand ready to use policy tools as appropriate and 
monitor structural problems which would affect competitiveness and growth outlook going forward. This 
should be firmly addressed by all related parties.  
Assessment of the Economic and Financial Outlook as the Basis for Policy Formulation  
1. Global Economy  
The global economic outlook was expected to  further expand . Despite a slowdown in 2019, the global 
economy would start to  exhibit more  stabilizing growth in 2020, especially in the manufacturing sector which 
was expected to improve in tandem with global trade volume, a recovery of the electronics cycle, and 
improved sentiment after the US and China unofficially reached an agreement  on the phase one trade deal . 
The Committee thus revised down growth projection of Thailand’s trading partner economies to 2.7 
percent in 2019, while maintained growth projection at 2.7 percent in 2020. Nonetheless, the 
probability of trading partner economies underperforming the baseline projection remained  owing to 
risks to global financial stability whi ch were expected to be more vulnerable. Lower-for-longer policy rate s 
would partly contribute to debt accumulation and increase risks of search -for-yield behavior, which could 
lead to underpricing of risks. Moreover, uncertainties pertaining to trade tensi ons remained high as the 
situation could be prolong ed and intensified . Geopolitical risks could  also be  heightened  and widespread . 
These risks might impact the manufacturing sector, exports, global trade volume, as well as confidence and 
investment in the period ahead.  
 Most central banks maintained a dovish monetary policy stance to shore up the economy . The Federal 
Reserve (Fed) cut its policy  rate in October 2019 to 1.50 – 1.75 percent. The Fed was expected to keep its 
policy rate on hold throughout 2020. The European Central Bank (ECB) announced a package of additional 
monetary policy easing measures in November 2019. The Bank of Japan (BOJ) would likely ease monetary  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               2 policy further should the economy experience a significant slowdown. Other regional central banks, including 
Bank Indonesia (BI), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Bank of Korea 
(BOK), and the Re serve Bank of Australia (RBA) lowered their policy rates further to support weakening 
economic and inflation outlook.   
2. Financial Conditions and Financial Stability  
Thailand’s overall financial conditions were more accommodative  following a policy rate cut in 
November. This was reflected by the real policy rate which declined from the previous quarter and remained 
at a low level relative to those of other emerging markets ( EMs). Interest rates in Thailand’s financial markets, 
including short -term government bond yields, corporate bond yields, and some commercial banks’ lending 
rates , declined in tandem with the policy rate cut. Meanwhile , long -term government bond yields increased 
in line with the ir US counterpart s, propelled by i mproved sentiment in the global financial market s following 
an unofficial agreement between the US and China  over the phase one trade deal . Private credit continued 
to slow down for both business and consumer loans as a result of economic slowdown and more tightening 
credit standards among financial institutions. The baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar from the end of 
the previous quarter. However, movements of the baht were two -way and more in line with r egional 
currencies following the policy rate cut and the relaxation of foreign exchange regulations in November to 
encourage capital outflows. The real effective exchange rate (REER) index also appreciated from the last 
quarter.  
There remained risks in the  financial system that could pose vulnerabilities to financial stability in 
the future.  These risks included , for instance, (1) a weakening ability of households to manage liquidity and 
service debt amid the economic slowdown, (2) substantial  oversupply in  the real estate market, especially 
for condominium s, which caused condominium prices  to start declining , and (3) the search -for-yield behavior 
which would persist as domestic and international policy rates would likely be lower for longer. This could 
lead to underpricing of risks, particularly among saving cooperatives and large corporates.  
3. Economic and Inflation Outlook  
The Thai economy was expected to expand at 2.5 and 2.8 percent in 2019 and 2020, respectively, 
which would be below its potential and lower than the previous assessment . Merchandise exports 
were projected to recover more slowly than expected due to the slowdown in global trade volume 
affected by trade tensions and the impact of structural changes in the Thai economy  on export 
sector . Public expenditure and private invest ment would expand more slowly than the previous 
forecast. However, private consumption in 2019 was expected to be better than estimated thanks to 
the government’s short -term economic stimulus  measures . In 2020, consumption was nonetheless 
projected to slow  down in tandem with slower  growth in  household income and the drought. In 2021, 
the Thai economy was expected to continue to gain further traction as some public -private 
partnership (PPP) and public investment projects were postponed to take place in 2021.  Details of 
the forecasts are as follows:  
The value of merchandise exports in 2019 was expected to contract by more than previously 
estimated.  Global trade volume would slow down in line with global economy and trade tensions. Moreover, 
Thai exports w ould face additional pressures from (1) structural factors including a trade diversion loss to 
China and the loss of competitive advantage on production cost, (2) baht appreciation, and (3) lower -than-
expected prices of export products  which were sensitive  to oil prices . However, Thai exports in the period 
ahead were projected to record a moderate growth in 2020  thanks to improvements in global trade , a 
gradual pick up in the electronics cycle , as well as an unofficial agreement between the US and China over 
the phase one trade deal which would lead to reduction and exemption of previously imposed tariffs  on 
import goods .  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               3 Exports of services were expected to continue expanding , in line with the outlook of most foreign tourist 
nationalities. The expansion was partly due to government measures to boost tourism through extending  
the exemption of  visa-on-arrival (VOA) fee s until the end of April 2020 , although  tourist spending per head 
was expected to somewhat slow down following subdue d global economic growth.  
Private consumption, in the short -term, was supported by government stimulus measures, but was 
expected to exhibit slower growth in the period ahead  after the effects of such measures wane off and 
household income becomes weakened . The outlook of employment and work hours would continue to 
decline  and the decline would become more broad -based across many business sectors. Meanwhile, farm 
income in 202 0 was projected to contract following falling production as a result of the drought. In addition, 
elevated household debt would  remain  weigh ing on private consumption.  
Private investment was projected to expand at a lower rate than previously assessed  due to export 
contraction which had become more evident. Moreover, profitability and business confidence in investment 
continued to deteriorate while PPP projects were also delayed. Nonetheless, private investment in the 
period ahead would be supported  by export recovery  and the continuing infrastructure investment 
projects , including the 5G network  investment .  
Public expenditure was expected to expand more slowly than the previous forecast  following the 
ability of government agencies to  incur carry-over budget obligations under the new Budget Procedure Act , 
prolonged delay s in state -owned enterprise (SOE) investment, and a reduction in SOE investment  budget s 
in 2020.  
Headline inflation s in 2019 and 2020 were projected to be below the target and below the previous 
estimate due mainly to supply -side factors including (1) lower -than-expected energy prices over recent 
periods and downward revisions in the projection for crude oil prices  in the period ahead , and (2) minimum 
wage hike in 2020 that would be lower than previously assessed. Moreover, core inflation would remain low 
in line with decelerating demand -pull inflationary pressures. However, headline inflation was projected to 
increase from 0.7 percent  in 2019 to 0.8 percent in 2020. Meanwhile, core inflation was projected to 
increase from 0.5 percent in 2019 to 0.7 percent in 2020 in line with the outlook of economic recovery 
and the impact of minimum wage hike. Headline inflation was anticipated to re turn to the target 
during the second half of 2021.  
Risks to economic growth and inflation projections remained  tilted  to the  down side. The 
possibilities that the Thai economy would underperform the baseline projection would be due to  (1) 
slower -than-expected  growth in  global trade volume and trading partner economies as a result of trade 
tensions  which could re-intensify , (2) more -than-expected  impact of a potential delay in the enactment of 
the Annual Budget Expenditure Act, B.E. 2563 (A.D. 2020) on public expenditure , as well as  potential 
implementation delay and lack of continuity in government policies , (3) larger -than-expected effects from a 
slowdown in household income growth on private consumption, as well as the impact of  intensifying drought, 
and (4) global financial stability risks which could impact the economy in the medium term. On the other 
hand, there were possibilities that the Thai economy would outperform the baseline projection 
attributable to  (1) higher -than-projected growth of trading partner economies if there were additional 
government stimulus measures, improvements in trade tensions, as well as faster - and better -than-expected 
recovery in the electronics cycle, and (2) highe r-than-expected domestic demand as a result of public 
infrastructure investment and PPP projects, which may incentivize private sector to invest at a higher level 
and faster , as well as the potential implementation of additional government stimulus measures. There 
remained downside risks to headline and core inflation projections  in line with risks to the economic 
growth projection.   
 
  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               4 1. Global Economy  
Despite a slowdown in  2019, major advanced economies would start to exhibit more stabilizing  
growth in 2020.  
In the third quarter of 2019, the U.S. and euro area econom y expanded at a slightly 
faster pace than in the previous quarter. While export s, investment, and production  continued 
to moderate , private consumption could still  expand on account of robust labor markets, 
especially in the services sector. Moreover, additional monetary policy accommodation  in the 
recent period was a key supporting factor for economic  growth. The Japanese economy  also 
improved from the previous quarter, driven by domestic demand expansion due to accelerated 
spending prior to an increase in consumption tax from 8 to 10 percent , which became effective 
since October  1, 2019. In addition, i nvestment  in machinery to mitigate labor shortages lent 
additional support to economic growth.  
In the period ahead, major advanced economies would start to exhibit a more 
stabilizing growth in 2020, despite a slowdown in 2019. In particular, t he manufacturing 
sector would improve in tandem with global trade volume.  (Chart 1.1). Meanwhile, p rivate 
consumption would remain the key driver of economic growth supported by employment in 
the services sector. However, employment in the manufacturing sector which remained s oft, 
and some country -specific factors  including  an increase in  consumption tax in Japan, could 
moderate private consumption growth somewhat  in the period ahead . Moreover, a greater role 
of fiscal polic y to boost the econom y, such as the Japanese governmen t’s 26 trillion yen 
stimulus package to  be implemented  in 2020 , would  also support growth in the period ahead.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
4849505152535455565758
Dec-16
Mar-17
Jun-17
Sep-17
Dec-17
Mar-18
Jun-18
Sep-18
Dec-18
Mar-19
Jun-19
Sep-19DM EM Global
Nov-19Chart 1.1 Global manufacturing outlook exhibited signs of 
improvement in major advanced economies and Asia
Note: DM  = Developed Markets; EM = Emerging Markets
Source:  CEIC, Markit PMI, JP Morgan (Global PMI )Diffusion Index ( par = 50 )Global manufacturing Purchasing Manager Index (PMI) 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               5 Asian economies expanded at a slower pace on account of trade tensions  between the 
U.S. and China , but were expected to improve in line with improving leading indicators,  
a recovery of the electronic s cycle, and improving sentiment after the U.S. and China 
unofficially reached an agreement on the phase one trade deal .   
In the third quarter of 2019, the Chinese economy expanded at  a slower pace 
than in the previous quarter , mainly as private investment and exports were affected by 
trade tensions. However, the economy in the recent periods was supported by government 
stimulus measures, including infrastructure investments through is suances of local government  
special bonds and reduction of financing costs to a low level. In the period ahead, the Chinese 
government would be cautious when implementing stimulus policies in order to maintain 
financial stability, which could be done throu gh a wide range of stimulus measures, such as 
tax reductions and monetary policy easing. This would ensure a quality economic growth in 
accordance with the government‘s growth target . 
 In the third quarter of 2019, Asian economies (excluding Japan and Chin a) 
moderated from the previous quarter  as production and exports were affected by trade 
tensions, as well as prolonged protests in Hong Kong which resulted in an economic 
contraction. Looking ahead, Asian economies were expected to recover gradually, as 
merchandise exports were expected to improve relative to the previous quarter. (Chart 1.2) 
This was in line with improving outlook of global trade volume and the electronics cycle, which 
began to show stabilizing sign and was expected to recover in the first  half of 2020. Although 
manufacturing sector and investment were partly affected by trade tensions in the recent 
periods, sentiment began to improve after the U.S. and China unofficially reached an 
agreement on the phase one trade deal on December 13, 2019 . Moreover, robust private 
consumption and employment, and a greater role of government stimulus measures, would 
support Asian economic growth going forward . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
507090110130150
2   2   2   2  6 2   2   2   Electronics (42.4%) Other manufacturing products (21.7%)
Commodities (22.4%) Machinery (5.9%)
Transportation (6.3%) Food (1.3%)
Oct 19Chart 1.2 Asian exports still contracted in line with global trade 
slowdown and some country -specific factors, despite some 
positive signs
Asian exports value*, classified by product categories
Index, sa (Jan 2013 = 100)
Note : *Asian exports include Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia and Singapore .
( ) denotes share of total exports in 2018. Commodity -related products include 
crude oil, metals, chemicals, rubber, and vegetable oil. Other manufacturing 
products include textile, papers, furniture, footwear and miscellaneous. 
Source: CEIC  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               6 Growth projections for Thailand’s trading partner economies in 2019 were revised downward , 
but p rojections for 2020 were maintained . Meanwhile,  risks tilt ed to the downside  in line with 
the previous assessment . 
Trading partner economies in 2019 were expected to expand at a slightly slower pace  
than in the previous assessment as the ec onomic data outturns for the third quarter of 2019 
were lower than expected. In particular , the Hong Kong  economy  contract ed due to  prolonged 
protests. The Committee thus revised down growth projections for Thailand’s trading 
partners in 2019 from 2.8 to 2 .7 percent.  In 2020, trading partner economies would begin to 
exhibit a more stabiliz ing growth , although the euro area econom y might moderate as 
implementation of fiscal measures could face constraints and be delay ed longer  than 
anticipated. Nevertheless, the U.S. and China’s unofficial agreement on the phase one trade 
deal, which led to the reduction and cancellation of previously imposed  import tariffs, would 
benefit the expansion of trading partner economies in 2020, espe cially the U.S. and China. 
The Japanese economy could also outperform the previous projection, given the government’s  
stimulus package. The Committee thus maintained growth projection for trading partners  
at 2.7 percent in 2020  (Table 1.1).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee assessed that there were possibilities that trading partners’ 
growth could underperform the baseline projection, in line with greater downside risks 
in the medium to long term arising from a more vulnerable  outlook of the  global 
financial stability . Lower -for-longer policy rates would partly contribute to debt accumulation 
of businesses, non -banks, and the public sector in several countries, and increase risks of 
search -for-yield behavior, which could lead to underpricing of risks. These risks included (1) 
investment in government bonds with negative yields which were  more sensitive to interest 
rate changes, (2) investment in illiquid assets, and (3) investment in high -risk assets, such as 
corporate bonds issued by companie s with high indebtedness.  
 
Weight (%) 2018 * 2019 2020
United States 15.9 2.9 2.3 (2.3) 1.8 (1.7)
Euro area 10.3 1.9 1.2 (1.2) 1.1 (1.3)
Japan 14.1 0.3 1.0 (1.0) 0.4 (0.2)
China 17.1 6.6 6.1 (6.1) 5.9 (5.8)
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 34.2 4.1 2.6 (2.9) 3.2 (3.3)
Total*** 100 3.5 2.7 (2.8) 2.7 (2.7)
Note:   *Outturn
 **Weighted by   trading partners’ shares in Thailand’s exports in 2   , namely,
    Singapore (5.3%), Hong Kong (7.1%), Malaysia (6.6%), Taiwan (2.2%), Indonesia (5.7%), 
    South Korea (2.8%), and Philippines (4.5%)
***Weighted by    trading partners’ shares in Thailand’s exports in 2    (including the
    United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) as reported in Monetary Policy Report, September 2019Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partner growth
Annual change (%YoY)  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               7 Moreover, there remained risks that warranted monitoring given potential impact on  
production, exports, and global trade volume, as well as  confidence  and investment going 
forward. Such risks included (1) trade tensions  between t he U.S. and China , where the next 
phase of trade negotiations could be prolonged and the situation could intensify , with the 
possibility that the U.S. might raise tariffs on auto imports  in the future, (2) uncertainties 
pertaining to Brexit scenarios  and t iming, and (3) geopolitical risks which could intensify and 
become widespread . In particular, protests that occurred in similar pattern and more often 
including prolonged and intensifying protests in Hong Kong, Chile, Bolivia, and Lebanon , could 
heighten v olatilities in the financial and commodity markets.  
Most central banks maintained a dovish monetary policy stance to shore up the econom y. 
Monetary policies of major advanced economies ’ central banks remained 
accommodative  to support the economy . The Federal Reserve (Fed) cut its policy rate for 
the third time in September 2019 from 1.75 -2.00 percent to 1.50 -1.75 percent. The Fed kept 
its policy rate unchanged at the December meeting  and was expected to keep the policy rate 
on hold throughout 202  . Going forward, the Fed’s monetary policy would mainly follow a  data-
dependent  approach . Moreover , the European Central Bank (ECB) kept its policy rate at a low 
level and injected liquidity in the financial system through the third targeted longer -term 
refinancing operations (TLTROs) for a more efficient credit extension from commercial banks 
to the real economy . The ECB also started to purchase bonds under the asset purchasing 
programs (APPs) since November  1, 2019, as previously announced  in the package  of 
additional monetary policy easing measures . Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan (BOJ) would likely 
ease monetary policy further should the economy experience a significant slowdown.  
Monetary policies of most r egional central banks  were more accommodative . 
The Bank Indonesia (BI), Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), 
Bank of Korea (BOK), and the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) cut their policy rates to support 
weakening economic and inflation outlook. Meanwhile, Bank Negara Malays ia (BNM) kept its 
policy rate on hold after having cut its policy rate  in the beginning of 2019.  
Emerging markets experienced net capital inflows following positive developments on the 
U.S.-China trade negotiations and Brexit, and a more dovish monetary policy stance of 
central banks in major advance d economies.  
 In the beginning of the fourth  quarter of 2019 , net capital inflows to emerging markets 
(EMs) increased  in both  equity and bond markets . This was on account of  improved global 
financial market co nditions following positive developments on the U.S. -China trade negotiations  
and Brexit, and a more dovish monetary stance of central banks in major advanced 
economies. As a result, investor sentiment shifted to ward  risk-on in line with a marked decline 
in the VIX Index1/ (Chart 1.3). However, since the middle of November 2019, capital inflows to 
EMs began to slow down  amid investor concerns over risks including slowing global economic 
growth outlook , and prolonged and uncertain  trade negotiations  between the U.S. and China . 
At the beginning of December, risks in the global financial market s heightened somewhat after 
the U.S. passed the Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act to support protests in 
                                           
1/ VIX Index is a measure of the stock market volatility implied by S&P 500 Index options.   
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               8 Hong Kong, and raised tariffs on imported goods f rom Argentina, Brazil and France. However, 
risks in the global financial market s abated after the U.S. and China unofficially reached an 
agreement on the phase one trade deal, which would benefit  global trade recovery in the 
period ahead.  
 Looking ahead , capital inflows to EMs would still be supported by heightened global 
liquidity resulting from monetary policy easing in major advanced economies. However, global 
financial markets would remain highly volatile due to several risk factors . In the short term , 
global financial markets would experience lower risks thanks to the U.S. -China’s unofficial 
agreement on the phase one trade deal, although there remained risks regarding the next 
phase of t rade negotiations and heightened geopolitical risks. In the medi um to long term, 
outlook of lower -for-longer policy  rates would pose greater risks to global financial stability.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dubai crude oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2019 were largely unchanged from the  
previous quarter. Factors pushing down prices included Saudi Arabia’s fast return to 
normal production  capacity  and the global economic slowdown. Meanwhile, upward 
pressures were from additional crude oil production cut agreed by OPEC  members  and 
allies, and the U.S. and Ch ina’s unofficial agreement on the phase one trade deal.  
Dubai crude oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2019 were largely unchanged from 
the previous quarter. Factors that put downward pressures on crude oil prices  were: (1) 
the return of Saudi Arabia ’s oil production capacity to normal level since October following 
attacks on its oil processing facilities at the end of the previous quarter, and (2) slower  growth 
of crude oil demand owing to  the global economic slowdown, partly as a result of  trade 
tensions  between the U.S. and China. On the other hand, factors that pushed crude oil 
prices upward in some periods include  (1) an agreement by OPEC members and allies  at 
the latest meeting to additionally cut crude oil production  from 1.2 to 1.7 million barrels p er 
day, which would be effective from January 1 to March 31, 2020  in accordance with  the time 
frame  of the previous agreement , and (2) the U.S. and China’s unofficial agreement on the 
phase one trade deal , which eased the downward pressure on crude oil pri ces. As the effects 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               9 on prices of downward and upward pressures  were more or less in balance, Dubai  crude  oil 
prices in the fourth quarter of 2019 were thus largely unchanged from the previous quarter.  
The Committee thus revised down the projection for Duba i crude oil prices in 
2019 and 2020  from 64.0 and 63.0 U.S. dollars per barrel to 63.4 and 62.5 U.S. dollars per 
barrel , respectively. The downward revision was due to  a faster -than-expected return of Saudi 
Arabia’s oil production capacity to normal level,  and a slower -than-expected outlook of the 
global economic growth than in the previous assessment. Nevertheless, risks to the projection  
of Dubai crude oil prices were revised to tilt  upward  from being in balance  as previously 
assessed  in the previous Monetary Policy Report . This was because the intensity of 
geopolitical risks could be greater than expected. Moreover, OPEC  members , especially 
Saudi Arabia, could make a larger production cut than the agreement  and could extend the 
agreement to cut crude oil production further . On the contrary, crude oil prices might decline 
due to a larger -than-expected economic slowdown driven by potentially prolonged and 
intensifying trade tensions. In addition, the International Maritime Organization (IMO)’s 
enforcemen t of the new marine fuel regulations might result in a lower demand for high -sulfur 
oil, including  Dubai crude  oil, than the baseline projection.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               10 2. The Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent developments  
The Thai economy in the third quarter of 2019  expanded  at a slower pace than the previous  
quarter mainly due to  external demand.  
 In the third quarter of 2019 , the Thai economy expanded 2.4 percent from the same 
period last year. The growth rate was in line with that of the previous quarter. However , it was 
lower than previously assessed  in the previous Monetary Policy Report , main ly due to a lower -
than-expected growth of external demand. Thai merch andise exports (excluding gold) 
continued to contract on the back of contraction  in manufacturing exports, including petroleum -
related  products, machinery and equipment, and electronic s parts . The export contraction  was 
driven by the slowdown in trading partner  economies , impacts of trade tensions  between the 
U.S. and China, a prolong ed down cycle of electronic products, a s well as  a fall in global crude 
oil prices. Merchandise exports contraction was in line with the decline in export -related 
manufacturing. Similarly, exports of agricultural products continued to contract due to the 
decline in exports of rice, cassava, and rubber, given high level of importers’  stocks  and loss 
of Thailand’s price competitiveness. Meanwhile, exports of services , despite  a negative 
growth, improved from the previous quarter, thanks to the increase in for eign tourist  figure s, 
especially Chinese tourists. Meanwhile, domestic demand continued to grow. Private investment  
expanded thanks to investment in machinery and equipment, particularly in other vehicles  
item, following a rise in imports of electric  trains  and ships during periods of baht appreciation. 
Public spending growth improved, supported by expenditures on personnel  compensation, 
and on goods and services. Also, public investment continued to grow  thanks to construction 
in state -owned enterpri se (SOE)  investment projects , such as the Phase 2 expansion  of 
Suvarnabhumi Airport. However, private consumption growth moderated in almost all categories , 
in tandem with slower growth in the trading sector. Although the government had allocated  
extra  budget for the social welfare card scheme, factors  supporting overall  household 
purchasing power weakened, especially given slower growth in household income in line with  
lower employment and deteriorating consumer confidence.  
 In the fourth quarter of 2019 , most recent economic indicators pointed to a softer 
economic growth relative  to the previous quarter. Private consumption would decelerate, 
although government’s economic stimulus measures helped shore up consumption of non -
durable goods to some extent.  However, the support was not sufficient  to offset the impact 
from the decline in household income and employment, especially in export -related manufacturin g 
sectors. Elevated household debt would also weigh on private consumption. Public expenditure 
slowed down mainly on account of public investment, as the delay  in the enactment of the 
Annual Budget Expenditure Act, B.E. 2563 (A.D. 2020) resulted in delay in disbursements of 
capital expenditure for new investment projects. Public investment also moderated due to a 
prolonged delay in SOE investment and a reduction in SOE investment budget for fiscal year 
2020. Meanwhile, private  investment growth was largely unchanged from  the previous quarter, 
thanks to  a greater clarity pertaining to the public -private  partnership projects in major 
infrastructure investment, such as the Mabtapud  Industrial Port development project . Private 
investment also benefited from  the ongoing relocation of production base of some industries 
to Thailand, as businesses  seek to avoid the  impact from trade tensions . On the external side,  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               11 merchandise exports continued to contract in line with the significant decline in export -related 
manufacturing and employment, as a result of the slowdown in trading partner economies and 
global trade volu me due to  trade tensions . Thai merchandise exports were also indirectly 
affected by increased competition from Chinese merchandise exports in the regional market. 
Meanwhile,  exports of services resumed growth thanks to the increase in foreign tourist 
figures, especially Chinese, Indian, and Taiwanese tourists, supported by the extended exemption  
of visa -on-arrival (VOA) fee s until the end of April 2020.  
The economic slowdown  led household purchasing power to be more  vulnerable, as 
reflected by the decline in non -farm employment across  all sectors . In addition , impact of 
the drought on farm income must be monitored.   
 Employment and income of  non-farm households  continued to contract from the 
same period last year across all sectors (Charts 2.1 and 2.2). The decline was particularly 
observed  in export -related manufacturing sectors, such as rubber and plastic, food, and motor 
vehicles . However, employment in tourism -related service s sectors  improved somewhat 
thanks to  the increase  in foreign tourist figures. Moreover , weaker household purchasing 
power had a negative impact  on income of self -employed workers who relied heavily on 
purchasing power of other groups of workers. Nevertheless , ther e remained a need to monitor 
structural changes in the labor market and impacts on the market from  the economic 
slowdown . These included  (1) changes in employment pattern from monthly to daily contract  
in some  industries , (2) the increasing adoption  of automation which  led to challenges in 
upskilling and reskilling the labor force, (3) employers’ temporary suspension of business 
operation and employees’  reduction in work hours which led to lower wage s according to 
Section 75 of the Labor Protection Act, and  (4) exits from the labor force of workers from all 
educational levels  that were not old -age workers .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Income of farm households  moderated  due to lower  agricultural output as a result of  
the drought. Also, prices of some agricultural products , such as rubber , remained low. 
Nevertheless, government measures to support income of  farm households  helped alleviate 
the impact to some extent . These measures included, for example, the income guarantee  
scheme for farmers and subsidies  for rice harvesting and rice quality improvements . In the 
period ahead, farm households would face  risks from l ow water  levels in dams , especially in 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               12 some major  dams2/ where water levels were critically low. Such water shortage could  affect 
agricultural  output in the period  ahead .  
Headline inflation declined in line with food and energy prices.  
Headline inflation averaged at 0.16  
percent  in the first two months of the fo urth 
quarter of 2019, down from 0.61 percent in 
the previous quarter (Chart 2.3). The 
decrease was due to a fall in fresh  food 
prices . This was in line with lower vegetable  
and fruit prices given large supply  to the 
market , and a drop in meat prices, 
especi ally pork prices which  were weighed 
down by lower domestic demand following 
the African swine fever (ASF) epidemic in 
neighboring countries. Meanwhile , energy 
prices fell on the back of domestic retail oil 
prices, which declined in tandem with 
global crude  oil prices.  
 Core inflation  averaged at 0.46 percent in the first two months of the fo urth quarter of 
2019, largely unchanged from the previous quarter. Food -in-core inflation fell (Chart 2.4) 
mainly in line with prices of prepared food. However, prices of non -alcoholic beverages rose 
slightly following the increase in excise tax on sugar -sweetened  beverages. Meanwhile, core 
inflation in the non -food categories increased slightly  (Chart 2.5), mainly driven by the increase 
in prices of personal care. In other categories, prices slowly increased  amid slowdown in 
domestic economy, and were influenced by changes in structural factors  including  the 
expansion of e -commerce, rising price competition, and lower production costs from higher 
production efficiency. T hese factors contributed to low core inflation in the non -food categories 
in recent periods (Table 2.1).  
 Short -term (one -year ahead) inflation expectations  according to the survey of 
businesses in November 2019 stood at 1.7 percent, a slight decline from 1.8 percent in the 
previous quarter. Inflation expectations of professional forecasters  in September 2019 stood 
at 1.2 percent, down slightly from 1.3 percent in the previous quarter. Meanwhile, long -term 
(five-year ahead) inflation expectations  according to the survey of professional forecasters  
in September 2019 recorded 2.0 percent, an improvement from the previous survey ’s result 
of 1.8 percent (April 2019). In addition, inflation expectations based on a macro -finance term 
structure model with bond yields and macroeconomic data stabilized at 1.6 percent in the third 
quarter of 2019.  
 
                                           
2/  Dams with critically -low water levels included major dams in the Chao Phraya river basin such as Bhumibol Dam, 
Sirikit Dam, Pa Sak Dam, Kwai Noi Dam, and Ubol Ratana Dam in the Northeastern region of Thailand.   
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               13  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short -term money market rates, sh ort-term government bond yields, and some types of 
bank lending and deposit rates fell in line with the policy rate. However, long -term government  
bond yields rose mainly due to external factors.  
In the fo urth quarter of 2019, short -term money market rat es and short -term 
government bond yields continued to decline, mainly in line with the policy rate cut by 0.25 
percent to 1.25 percent on November  6, 2019 (Chart 2.6). Meanwhile, medium - to long -term 
government bond yields  (Chart 2.7) rose in tandem with U .S. treasury yields, on the back of 
risk-on sentiment in the global financial markets following  positive developments on trade 
negotiations  between the U.S. and China and Brexit. In addition, many central banks were 
expected to pause  the additional monetary policy easing . Nevertheless, the rise in long -term 
Thai government bond yields would be limited  due to increased  demand from domestic 
investors, such as mutual funds, and foreign investors following  an increase in the weights of 
Thai government bo nds in the J.P. Morgan Government Bond Index.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.1 Inflation
2018 2019
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct - Nov
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) 1.07 0.64 1.31 1.47 0.84 0.74 1.08 0.61 0.16
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.71 0.61 0.76 0.78 0.71 0.62 0.54 0.45 0.46
Raw food -0.63 -1.04 -0.35 -0.82 -0.35 2.50 4.98 5.78 3.70
Energy 5.66 3.01 7.30 9.11 3.39 -0.79 -0.70 -4.97 -6.12
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommerceAnnual percentage change 2017
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               14 Overall corporate bond yields  declined in the fo urth quarter of 2019  in line with  
the policy rate. Similarly, costs of financing through commercial banks  became more 
accommodative , as many Thai commercial  banks cut their minimum loan rates (MLR) for the 
first time in 14 quarters. Also, the minimum retail rates (MRR) were reduced slightly further 
from the previous quarter (Chart 2.8). Meanwhile, new loan rates (NLR)3/ declined to 3.8 
percent in October 2019  from the end of the previous quarter (Chart 2.9). The fall in NLR s was 
seen across all contract sizes among  many types of business es, partly for the purpose of 
short -term working capital. Deposit rates also fell (Chart 2.10) in tandem with lending rates , 
especially for 3-month, 6 -month, and 12 -month fixed deposits . Mean while , average saving 
rates remained unchanged.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
3/ NLR is the weighted average of interest rates on new loan contracts extended by 14 Thai commercial banks 
each month. The loan contracts exclude consumer loans, credit card loans, repurchase agreements, bank 
guarantees, as well as loans extended to financial intermedi aries, the public sector and non -residents. The 
dataset covers loans with value of 20 million baht or higher for all loan types, purposes and maturities, and  
includes both secured and unsecured loans. Moreover, interest rates used in the calculation refer to the mid -rate 
between the lowest and the highest rates in each loan contract  
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               15 Private sector financing continued to moderate in line with economic conditions  
In September and October 2019,  private credit4/ continued to slow down in both 
business and household sectors in line with economic conditions. In particular, business and 
household credit expanded 2.8 and 5.0 percent  in October 2019, respectively (Chart  2.11).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business credit moderated mainly 
in the loan category , where  business loans 
exhibited a slower growth of 0.4 percent in 
October 2019. This was partly because  
businesses in electricity power generation, 
transmission, and distribution raised funds in 
the equity market to r epay bridge loans  to 
financial institutions.  Moreover, issuance of 
corporate bond slowed down , after having 
accelerated in earlier periods  (Chart  2.12) . 
However, businesses in information and 
communication technology continued to raise  
funds through the bo nd market, mainly to 
repay their matured debt.   
 
                                           
4/ Loans extended to the private sector consist of those  extended by  (1) other  depository  corporations  (ODCs)  
including commercial banks, specialized financial institutions,  finance companies,  saving cooperatives  and market 
mutual funds  (2) other financial institutions (OFCs ) and (3) non-residents.  
Chart 2.12  Overall business financing continued to 
decelerate, especially business credit
Growth of business credit and corporate bond outstanding
%YOY
Note :   Business loans covers lending activities of Other Depository 
Corporation (ODCs ), Other Financial Corporations (OFCs ), 
and non-resident
** The definition of private credit was redefined to cover broader types of 
lenders and financial instruments. The data was first published in the 
MPR in 2019Q4, while the data was available from January 2012. 
Sources: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) and Bank of Thailand12.1
0.42.8
010203040
Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Jan
2019Corporate bond Business credit* Total financing**
Oct     
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               16 Household  credit  growth slowed down slightly to 5.0 percent in October 2019. The 
slowdown  was observed across all purposes, including other consumer loans,  auto leasing and 
mortgage loans. This was  in line with economic conditions and a more cautious credit extension 
by financial institutions  in order to  compl y with macroprudential measures implemented by the 
Bank of Thailand.  
Financial conditions were more accommodative following the policy rate cut  in 
November 2019 , which  allowed the real policy rate to decline from the previous quarter and 
remained at a low level relative to those of other emerging markets  (EMs) (Chart  2.13) . Meanwhile, 
private sector financing moderated in almost all channels, except equity financing.  Regarding 
credit underwriting standards in the fourth 
quarter of 2019,5/ financial institutions 
were expected to tighten credit underwriting  
standards for both business  and household  
loans, particularly loans extended to 
businesses related to real estate and 
hotel, given the economic slowdown and 
potentially  intensifying trade tensions. 
Moreover, financial institutions would be 
more cautious  in extending household  
loans for almost all purposes. This was 
partly due to deter iorating  credit quality, and 
partly as financial institutions  conform ed to 
the Bank of Thailand’s  guidelines on 
responsible lending  in order  to address 
household over-indebtedness . 
The baht  against the U.S. dollar and the nominal effective exchange rate (NEER) index 
appreciated and exhibited two -way movements  
In the fourth quarter of 2019,  the 
baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar  
relative to the end of the previous quarter  
(Chart  2.14). In particular, at the beginning of 
the quarter, a fast appreciation of the baht 
was in line with regional currencies , 
following the U.S. dollar  depreciation  due 
to lower -than-expected U.S. economic 
data outturn s and market expectations 
that the Fed would keep its policy rate 
unchanged for extended perio ds. The baht  
appreciated once again toward  the end of 
the quarter as the U.S. dollar weaken ed, 
following  an unofficial agreement  between 
                                           
5/ Results of financial institutions’ survey as published in the Report on Credit Conditions Q /2    and Outlook for 
Q4/2019  
Chart  2.13  Thailand’s real policy rate   decreased due to 
the policy rate cut and remained at a low level relative to 
those of other EM countries .
Real policy rates *
Note:  *Calculated from policy rate subtracted by one-year-ahead 
inflation expectation according to the survey by Consensus Economics 
(data as of 11 November 2019 )
Sources : Bloomberg  and  Consensus Economics, calculation by Bank 
of Thailand-202
US NZ JP UK EU ID IN PH MY TH KR%
Advanced economies Emerging markets
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               17 the US and China over the phase one trade deal, together with heightened geopolitical risks 
in several countries includ ing Hong Kong and Chile. However, the baht weakened somewhat  
following the MPC’s policy rate cut  to 1.25 percent on November 6, 2019 and the relax ation 
of foreign exchange regulations to encourage capital outflows on the same day.  As of 
December 17, 2019, the baht closed at 30.22  baht to U.S. dollar, a 1.2 percent appreciation 
from the end of the previous quarter.  
The nominal effective exchange rate  (NEER)  index as of December 17, 2019 stood 
at 126.9, an appreciation of 0.7 percent from the end of the previous quarter. This was 
attribut able to the baht strengthening 
against most trading partner currencies , 
except pound sterling, Philippine peso, 
Taiwanese dollar and Singa porean 
dollar (Chart  2.15). Meanwhile, the 
preliminary real effective exchange 
rate (REER)  at the end of November 
2019  rose slightly by 0.1 percent from 
the end of the previous quarter.  Going 
forward, exchange rates would likely 
remain volatile due to uncertainties 
surrounding trade tensions , fiscal 
policies of major advanced economies 
and regional economies, as well as 
geopolitical risks which  could intensify  
and become widespread . 
There remained pockets of risks in the financial system that could pose vulnerabilities to 
financial stability in the future. These risks included (1) a weake ning ability of households to 
manage liquidity and service debt amid the economic slowdown,  (2) oversupply in the real 
estate market, and  (3) the search -for-yield behavior which would persist  and could lead to 
underpricing of risks, particularly among savi ng cooperatives and large corporates.   
Thailand’s financial stability remained sound overall, particularly with regard to external 
stability, as indicated by the high level of international reserves and sustained current account 
surpluses. The low external  debt to GDP6/also provided cushion for the Thai economy against 
risks of volatile global financial markets. Meanwhile, financial institutions maintained robust 
financial positions, reflected by high levels of commercial banks’ capital buffers, providing 
cushion against risks of deteriorating credit quality. Nevertheless, there remained other risks 
that warranted continued monitoring going forward:   
1. Weakening ability of households to manage liquidity and service debt amid 
the economic slowdown. Househol d debt to GDP ratio in the second quarter of 2019 
remained high at 78.7 percent  (Chart  2.16). In addition, household income was expected to 
slow down in line with the economy. These raised default risk of the household sector. The 
NPL ratio of consumer loans in the third quarter of 2019 rose from the previous quarter to 2.8 
                                           
6/ The latest data as of the third quarter of 2019 showed the external debt to GDP ratio at 35.6 percent.  
-2%-1%0%1%2%3%4%5%6%
JPY
INR
KRW
MYR
EUR
AUD
IDR
CNY
THB
SGD
TWD
PHP
GBPPercentChart 2.15 The baht appreciated against the U.S . dollar 
in line with movements of other regional currencies 
(17 Dec 19 compared to the end of Sep 19)
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollar
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 17 December 2019 ) 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               18 percent. Meanwhile, t he special mention loan (SM) ratio, which reflected the inability to service 
consumer loans for 1 -3 months, also increased, indicating deteriorating quality of consumer 
loans across almost all  loan types, particularly mortgage, auto , and credit card loans.  Going 
forward, household debt to GDP ratio would continue to rise, since the economy could slow 
down at a faster pace than household debt. In addition, Thailand’s household debt was largely 
concentrated in personal consumption loans with short repayment p eriod and high interest 
rates,  thereby exposing households to a high monthly debt burden.  (Box: Thailand’s 
household debt composition and implications on financial positions ) Hence, there remained a 
need to monitor households’ ability t o cope with vulnerab ilities from negative economic and 
income shocks going forward.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial position of businesses became more vulnerable, especially small enterprises.  
This was reflected by sustained  negative operating profit margin (OPM) and interest coverage 
ratio (ICR)  of some small businesses.7/ Meanwhile, the continuation of  economic slowdown 
started to have an impact on medium -sized enterprises, as suggested by their NPL ratio which 
rose gradually. In addition, credit quality of loans extended to small enterprises  continued to 
deteriorate , causing  NPL ratio of SME loans to rise to 4.8 percent in the third quarter of 2019 
relative to the previous quarter.8/  
2. Substantial oversupply in the real estate market, especially for condominiums, 
caused condominium  prices to start declining. Unsold units of condominiums increased 
from 82,000 units at the end of 2018 to around 89,000 units during the first half of 2019, while 
time-to-go rose from 18 to 21 months. As a result, condominium price index recorded a slower  
growth of 0.4 percent in the second quarter and a contract ion of  0.6 percent in the third quarter 
of 2019, compared to the annual average of 6.5 percent over the past 5 years (Chart  2.17).  
                                           
7/ As reflected by the ICR and  OPM of  25th-percentile small -sized listed companies, which remained in the negative 
territory.  
8/ The NPL ratio of SME lo ans from 2013  to date averaged at  4.0 percent.  
Chart  2.16 The ratio of household debt to GDP exhibited an 
increasing sign 
The ratio of private credit to GDP
505560657075808590
507090110130150170
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014 Q1
2015 Q1
2016 Q1
2017 Q1
2018Q1
2019Q1Private debt (excluding financial institutions)
Corporate debt (RHS)
Household debt (RHS)% of GDP % of GDP
Source: Bank of Thailand 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               19  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The number of new condominium project launches in Bangkok and vicinities declined, 
especially in inner and central Bangkok (Chart  2.18), reflecting adjustments of developers 
which  helped reduce oversupply of condominiums. However, ability of developers to adjust 
still warranted monitoring, as d emand for residences  was affected by both domestic and global 
economic slowdown. In addition, the implementation of the LTV measure weighed on 
speculative  demand for residences , especially condominiums. Th is could, in turn, result in an 
imbalance between s upply and demand in the real estate market, which would increase 
liquidity risks of developers going forward.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Search -for-yield behavior  would persist  as domestic and international  policy 
rates  would likely be lower for longer . This  could lead to underpricing of risks and thus 
warranted continued monitoring . First, search -for-yield behavior of saving cooperatives 
continued, despite the slower expansion in assets in line with deposits and equities. Saving 
cooperatives increasingly rai sed funds through deposits and reduced their borrowing (Chart  
2.19) after regulatory authorities collaborated  in revising regulations to enhance supervisory 
Chart  2.17 Unsold units and average time -to-go of condominium 
increased, causing condominium price index to fall
Source: REIC, AREA and Bank of ThailandCondominium unsold units, average time -to-go, and price index
5.5%7.1%
4.9%
0.6%5.9%7.3%
0.3%
-0.6%
-0.08-0.030.020.07
505560657075808590
2016H1 2016H2 2017H1 2017H2 2018H1 2018H2 2019H1 2019Q3Thousand units
Average 
time-to-go
(months)Growth of condominium 
price index 
(%YOY)Unsold units of 
condominium
19 18 17 18 17 18 21
Source: AREA and the Bank of ThailandChart  2.18 Real estate developers, especially in inner and middle 
Bangkok, slowed down launches of new condominium projects
New condominium launches in Bangkok and vicinities 
4.311.4
2.87.915.320.4
3.49.011.3
7.9
4.410.0
05101520
Inner Bangkok Middle Bangkok Outer Bangkok Vicinities2018H1 2018H2 2019H1
Note    1. Zoning is based on Bangkok Metropolitan Administration 2001 (21 districts in inner Bangkok, 
18 districts in middle Bangkok and 11 districts in outer Bangkok)
2.Vicinities include Nonthaburi, Pathum Thani, Samutprakarn, Nakhonpathom, and Samut SakhonThousand units 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               20 standards. However, there remained a need to monitor systemic risk in the saving cooperatives  
syste m from high borrowings between saving cooperatives, as well as  the search -for-yield 
behavior of some surplus and large saving cooperatives given a continued increase in their 
investment  in corporate bond . Second, large cooperates accelerated their fundraising under 
prolonged low interest rates, especially by increasingly issuing  high-yield bonds. These 
cooperates had significant  interconnectedness with the financial system, and hence could lead 
to concentration risks in the financial markets.  Third,  outward investment through  foreign 
investment funds (FIF), which was highly concentrated in some countries , warranted 
monitoring going forward.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.19 Assets of saving cooperatives decelerated , but 
there remained pressure to search for higher yield 
% YoY
Note: Saving cooperatives were subjected to tighter regulation by the 
government since 2017H2
Source: Cooperative Auditing Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to growth of savings cooperatives ’ assets
051015
Dec-14
Dec-15
Dec-16
Dec-17
Mar-18
Jun-18
Sep-18
Dec-18
Mar-19
Jun-19
Sep-19
Oct-19
Loans to other cooperatives Secutities Other Than Shares
Shares and Other Equity Currency and Deposits
Loans to members Total Assets 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               21  Thailand’s household debt composition and  
implications on financial positions  
 Recent studies on Thailand’s household debt have revealed that “Thai households save 
little and become indebted quite early, in large amount, and over long periods ”. Such findings have 
drawn public attention to household debt problem and to pay more intere sts in household debt 
data. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) has been publishing data on Thailand’s household debt on a 
quarterly basis, classified by type of financial institutions that lend to households. In the second 
quarter of 2019, total household debt sto od at 13.1 trillion baht, or 78.7 percent of GDP9/. Recently, 
the BOT has prepared a new dataset  called “Loans to household classified by loan purpose” 
to provide a more comprehensive household debt data to the public , which was first published 
on the BOT website on January 31, 2020. An analysis based on the new dataset on household 
debt composition revealed the implications on Thailand’s financial stability as follows.  
 Thailand’s household debt was largely short -term loans for personal consumption , 
whereas the share of long -term loans for purchases of fixed assets was relatively 
lower. In particular, mortgage loans 
accounted for only 34 percent of 
total household debt in Thailand, in 
contrast to other countries where 
mortgage loans accounted for more  
than half of total household debt  
(Chart 1). Data on household debt 
composition in the second quarter of 
2019 suggested that loans for personal 
consumption10/ accounted for 32 percent 
of total household debt. Commercial 
banks, specialized financial institutions 
(SFIs) and non -banks were the main 
issuers of these loans, although leasing 
companies and savings cooperatives 
played an increasingly role in recent 
periods. Meanwhile, only 18 percent of 
total debt was incurred to  finance 
households’ business  operations, where 
nearly half of such debt was issued by 
SFIs for agricultural businesses.  
                                           
9/  The data is published on the BOT website under the statistics table “EC_MB_    Loans to Household”.  
It comprises loans to households from commercial banks, SFIs, saving cooperatives, credit card, leasing and 
personal loan companies; life insurance and non -life insurance companies; securities companies and asset 
management corporations; pawnshops; Governm ent Pension Fund; and other financial institutions. The data 
excludes lending from Student Loan Fund, National Village and Urban Community Fund, Pico -finance loans, 
loans under litigations, and informal loans. Including these loans will consequently increa se Thailand’s 
household debt to more than 80 percent to GDP.  
10/  Loans for personal consumption include personal loans, credit card loans, and loans for other purposes, most 
of which are likely for consumption purpose.  
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               22   Higher share of personal consumption loans compared to other countries partly 
contributed to higher debt burden of Thai households, as this type of loans mostly have 
short repayment periods and high interest rates.  An analysis on monthly debt burden of Thai 
households11/ (Chart 2) found that personal consumption loans constituted around 42 percent of 
total debt burden. This could pose problems to households in the  long run as personal consumption 
loans do not generate income, unlike business loans. In other words, a large share of debt burden 
on personal consumption loans reflected overspending behavior of households or spending 
beyond their income. Moreover, part of personal consumption loans are unsecured. Thus, in the 
event of adverse income shocks, households may face severe liquidity shortages, as they would 
still have obligations to repay the entire amount of debt.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Furthermore, part of Thailand’s household debt composition comprised secured 
loans, including mortgage and auto loans, which could help mitigate potential loss to 
financial institutions in case of household debt defaults. However, from the perspective of 
a borrower, collaterals might not  help reduce default risks.  This is because overall debt 
serviceability of households depends on economic conditions given direct impact on household 
income, such as wages and business profits of borrowers. In this case, income shocks could cause 
household s inability to service debt and risk losing collaterals, including their homes. This would 
have a negative wealth effect on households, consequently affecting overall economic activities, 
and could lead to knock -on effects on financial system stability. Hence, it is important to prevent 
over -indebtedness of households, so that Thai households can reap the most benefits from 
their borrowings without posing threats to financial stability in the long run. This would 
support the Thai economy to grow sustainably  going forward.  
                                           
11/  Debt burden of Thai households i s determined from remaining maturity of debt and interest rates of each loan 
type based on micro -level data from the National Credit Bureau and data reported by commercial banks to the BOT.  
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               23  2.2 Outlook for the Thai Economy  
The Committee assessed that the Thai economy would expand below its 
potential and at a lower rate than the previous assessment  in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report . The growth forecasts for 2019 and 2020 were 2.5 and 2.8 percent, 
respectively. Merchandise exports were projected to recover more slowly than expected due 
to the slowdown in global trade volume affected by trade tensions and the impact of structural 
chan ges in the Thai economy on export competitiveness. Public expenditure and private 
investment would expand more slowly than the previous forecast , partly due to delayed 
investment of state -owned enterprises and PPP projects. However, private consumption in 
2019 was expected to be better than previously estimated  thanks to  government ’s short -term 
stimulus measures. In 2020, consumption was nonetheless projected to slow down in tandem 
with slower growth in household income and the drought. In 2021, the Thai ec onomy was 
expected to continue to gain further traction as some PPP and public investment 
projects were postpone d to take place in 2021.  
The annual averages of headline inflation in 2019 and 2020 were projected to be 
0.7 and 0.8 percent, respectively, lower than the previous forecast and below the lower 
bound of the inflation target. This would be due to lower energy prices consistent with 
downward revisions in the projection of crude oil prices. Core inflation would remain low in line 
with decelerating demand -pull inflationary pressures and lower -than-expected cost-push 
pressures  from minimum wage hike  in 2020 . Nonetheless, headline and cor e inflation would 
gradually increase in 2020 from the previous year on account of the outlook of economic 
recovery and the impact of minimum wage hike. Thus, headline inflation w as anticipated 
to return to the target during the second half of 2021 .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the key forecast assumptions  
 Trading partner economies  were projected to expand slightly below the estimate in 2019 due 
to Hong Kong economic data outturns in the third quarter,  and prolonged and escalating 
geopolitical risks. However, tr ading partner economies would expand at a rate close to the 
previous forecast  in 2020. Despite weaker  employment indicators of the euro area econom y, 
this would be compensated by improving growth of Japan propelled by  fiscal stimulus package . 
Percent 2018 * 2019 2020
GDP growth 4.1 2.5 (2.8) 2.8 (3.3)
Headline inflation 1.1 0.7 (0.8) 0.8 (1.0)
Core inflation 0.7 0.5 (0.6) 0.7 (0.9)
Note: * Outturn 
        ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2019             
Sources: NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimatesTable 2.2 Forecast summary 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               24   The federal funds rate  declined in October 2019 to 1.50 -1.75 percent. The Fed was expected  
to keep the policy rate steady  throughout the forecast horizon, compared with the previous 
assessment of one policy rate cut in 2020.  
 Regional currencies (excluding the  Chinese yuan)  appreciated in the fourth  quarter of 2019 , 
partly thanks  to positive developments on trade negotiations between the U.S. and China. 
However, looking ahead, regional currencies would depreciate somewhat due to uncertainties  
surrounding future trade negotiations, monetary and fiscal policy stance of major advanced 
economies, as well as pote ntially intensifying and widespread geopolitical risks.  
 Dubai crude oil prices  were revised down throughout the forecast horizon due to subdue d 
global econom ic growth,  as well as a faster -than-expected return to normal level of Saudi 
Arabia’s crude oil sup ply.  
 Farm income, excluding government support measures, was close to the previous forecast. 
Agricultural output  in 2019 and 2020 would likely contract due to the drought and low water 
level in dams. However, agricultural prices were expected to rise, esp ecially prices of  rice, 
palm oil , and sugarcane. Moreover, government measures to directly support income of 
farm households would partially offset the adverse impact of the drought on output. These 
measures includ ed, for instance,  subsid ies for rice harve sting and rice quality improv ement , 
income guarantee scheme for cassava farmers, and subsid ies for in -season rice cultivation 
during the 2019 -2020 crop year . 
 Public spending at current prices  was revised down throughout the forecast horizon due to 
reductio n in carry -over budget in line with the ability of government agencies to incur carry -
over budget obligations under the new Budget Procedure Act , as well as a smaller 
investment budget and a prolonged delay of  state -owned enterprise (SOE) investment . 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
Merchandise exports were expected to recover slowly due to larger -than-expected impact 
from trade tensions.  
The value of merchandise exports in 2019 was expected to contract by more than 
previously estimated, primarily due to the decline in export  volume . Global trade volume would 
slow down in line with the global economy and trade tensions which would undermine trade and 
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2018* 2019 2020
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 69.6 63.4 (64.0) 62.5 (63.0)
Farm income (% YoY) 1.3 2.1 (2.0) -0.8 (-1.0)
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,637 2,747 (2,762) 2,889 (2,929)
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/962 987 (998) 1,067 (1,080)
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 2.375 1.625 (1.625) 1.625 (1.375)
Trading partners ’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.6 2.7 (2.8) 2.7 (2.7)
Regional currencies (excl. China) vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar (index)3/ 153.8 156.6 (157.3) 157.4 (158.0)
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand 's total exports
3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
                     * Outturns
               ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2019Annual percentage change 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               25 investment climate (Chart 2. 20). Moreover, some categories of Thai merchandise exports would 
face additional pressures from , first, structural factors including a trade diversion loss to China in 
the ASEAN market (Chart 2. 21) and the loss of competitive advantage on production cost . 
Second, the  baht appreciation would  have an  impact on price competitiveness, and redirect orders 
to trading partners with relatively weaker currencies . The value of imports would also decline in 
tandem with  lower  imports of raw materials an d intermediate goods for export -related 
manufacturing.  Third, the downward revision of crude oil price projection led to lower -than-
assessed  prices of export  product s which were sensitive to crude oil prices , such as petroleum -
related  products, and petrochemical and chemical products.  
However, Thai exports in the period ahead were projected to recor d a moderate 
growth in 2020 on account of higher export volume . Thai exports would benefit from 
improvements in the global trade, a gradual pick up in the electronics cycle, as well as an unofficial 
agreement between the U .S. and China over the phase one t rade deal which would lead to a 
reduction and cancellation  of previously imposed import tariffs. The Committee projected that 
the value of merchandise exports would contract 3.3 percent in 2020 and expand 0.5 
percent in 2021, lower than the estimates in th e previous Monetary Policy Report.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.33.03.3
0.93.63.43.9
3.3
0.02.04.06.0
WEO Apr 19 WEO Oct 19 WEO Apr 19 WEO Oct 192019F
2020FGlobal growth Global trade
Source: World Economic Outlook (WEO) of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)%YOYChart 2.20 Global trade volume would slow down in line with the 
global economy and trade tensions which would undermine trade 
and investment climate
IMF forecasts of outlook of global economic growth and trade volume 
80100120140160180200
Jan-17 Jul-17 Jan-18 Jul-18 Jan-19 Jul-19Import of Thai products that lost market share
Import of Thai products (total)
Import of Chinese products that gained market share
Import of Chinese products (total)
Total import* Beginning ofTrade war
(Sep 18)Index, sa(Jan  2    = 100)
Note:  *imports from top 10 trading partners, incluing Thailand  
(accounts for around 70 percent of total import from ASEAN)
Source   Trademap and Customs Department, calculation by the Bank of ThailandJul 19Chart 2.21 ASEAN imported more from China, but less from Thailand
ASEAN import value 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               26 Exports of services were expected to expand  thanks  to an increase in foreign tourist  figure s.  
Exports of services were expected 
to continue expanding from almost all 
nationalities of foreign tourists  (Chart 2.22) . 
The expansion was partly due to government 
measures to boost tourism through 
extending the ex   emption of vi sa-on-arrival 
(VOA) fees until the end of April 2020, 
although tourist spending per head was 
expected to somewhat slow down . This was  
following subdued global economic growth 
and baht appreciation which would make 
Thai goods and services relatively more 
expensive for foreign tourists. The foreign 
tourist figures were projected to be 39.9 
and 41.7 million persons in  2019 and 
2020, respectiv ely, higher than the 
estimates  in the previous Monetary Policy Report .  
The current account was projected to record 35.2 and 30.0 billion U.S. dollar 
surplus in 2019 and 2020, respectively . The surplus was in line with (1) improvements in 
exports of services  due to an increase in  the number of foreign tourists, (2) lower import value 
in line with smaller imports of raw materials and intermediate goods for export -related  
manufacturing  and private investment, and (3) lower import prices in accordance wi th the 
downward revision of global crude oil price  projection .  
Private consumption expand ed by more than expected in the short -term, mainly supported 
by government stimulus measures, but was expected to exhibit slower growth in the period 
ahead on account  of weaker household income .  
Private consumption toward the end of  2019  was supported by additional government 
stimulus measures . These includ ed, for example,  the second and third phases of the Taste -
Shop -Spend  program , measure to support farm income thro ugh transfer s and loan s, stimulus 
measure for small -scale local infrastructure investment, and real estate stimulus measure.12/ 
However,  as the effects of such measures would gradually wane off, private consumption 
in 2020 was projected to exhibit a slower growth  than previously estimated on account 
of weaker household income . In particular, non -farm income would weaken  as the outlook of 
both employment and work hours  would continue to decline . Moreover, the decline in  income 
would become  more broad -based ac ross many business sectors , after having been 
concentrated in export -related  manufacturing sectors. Meanwhile, f arm income was projected 
to contract in 20 20, mainly due to falling production. In addition, elevated household debt would 
remain weighing on pr ivate consumption, especially as household income was expected to slow 
down . This  could worsen  debt serviceability of households and lead to tightening credit 
                                           
12/ Cabinet resolutions on October 22, November 12 and 26, 2019  
Number of foreign tourists by country
50100150200
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019JulTotal China (28%)
Malaysia (11%) Asia excluding China and Malaysia (30%)
Europe excluding Russia (14%) Russia (4%)
Oct 19Index, sa (Jan 2015 = 100)
Note: figures in () show ratio to total number of tourists in 2018 
Source: Department of Tourism, calculation by the Bank of ThailandChart 2.22 Foreign tourist figures were expected to grow 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               27 underwriting standards of financial institutions, consequently exerting additional pressures on 
private consumption in the period ahead.  
Private investment was projected to expand at a lower rate than previously assessed, partly 
due to delays in PPP investment projects.  
Private investment was projected to expand at a lower rate than previously 
asse ssed  due to export contraction which had become more evident. Profitability and business 
confidence in investment continued to deteriorate, while  PPP investment projects were 
postponed.  These projects included, for instance, the western extension of the Or ange Line 
mass rapid transit project (Bang knunnon -Thailand Cultural Center) , which  was during the review 
of investment model . However, looking ahead, private investment would be supported by a 
gradual recovery of export sector and the continuing infrastruc ture investment projects, including 
the 5G network investment which was expected to commence immediately after the auction  for 
spectrum  license in the first quarter of 2020. Such investment would support private investment 
to grow at a higher rate in 2020 than in 2019.  
Public expenditure would continue to drive the economy, despite at a lesser extent than 
previously assessed.  
Public expenditure was expected to expand at a lower rate than previously 
assessed , both for consumption and investment spending . Public consumption declined  
following the  downward revision of  carry -over budget to be consistent with  the ability of 
government agencies to incur carry -over budget obligations under the new Budget Procedure 
Act. The decline was also due to  a smaller p roportion of current expenditure  and a larger 
proportion of capital expenditure in the carry -over budget for fiscal year 2020,  according to the 
latest data of the Comptroller General ’s Department. Public investment would decelerate  
mainly due to a longer -than-expected delay  in state -owned enterprises (SOE)  investment. The 
delays were owing to  (1) a reduction in investment budget of SOE in  the energy sector, (2) the 
dual-track railway project between Den Chai -Chiang Rai -Chiang Khong , which was postponed 
due to problems during the process of land expropriation and project bid ding, and (3) the 
Missing Link along the Red Line mass rapid transit project that underwent reviews regarding  
investment in overlapping land  with the high -speed rail project connect ing three airports .  
Projections of headline and core inflation were revised down in line with a more  negative 
output gap throughout the forecast horizon.  
Headline inflation in 2019 and 
202 w ere projected to be below the 
target and lower than  the previous 
estimate in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report  due mainly to supply -side 
factors . These  includ ed (1) lower -than-ex  
pected energy prices over recent periods 
and downward revisions in the projection 
of crude oil prices in the period ahead, 
resulting in lower energy inflation, and (2) 
minimum wage hike of 1.5 percent  in 2020 , 
-4-2024
2   2   2   2  62   2   2   2 2 2 2 Sep-19 Dec-19%Chart 2.23 Output gap 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               28 which would be lower than  the previous assessment of 6 percent. Moreover, core inflation would 
remain low in line with decelerating demand -pull inflationary pressures am id subdued economic 
conditions . This was  reflected by the lower -then-expected  and more negative output gap 
throughout the forecast horizon (Chart 2.2 3). However,  headline inflation was projected to 
increase from 0.7 percent in 2019 to 0.8 percent in 2020. Meanwhile , core inflation was 
projected to increase from 0.5 percent in 2019 to 0.7 percent in 2020 in line with the 
outlook of economic recovery and the impact of minimum wage hike. Headline inflation 
was anticipated to return to the target during the sec ond half of 2021 .  
Risks to g rowth and inflation projections remained tilted  to the downside.  
Under the Committee’s assessment, risks to economic growth and inflation 
projections remained tilted to the downside, but became more balanced than the 
assessment in the previous Monetary Policy Report  (Chart 2.2 4) after incorporating 
international trade tensions , which significant ly affec ted Thai exports, into the baseline 
projection. The possibilities that the Thai economy would underperform  the baseline 
projection would be due to  (1) slower -than-expected growth in global trade volume and 
trading partner economies as a result of trade tensions which could re -intensify, (2) more -
than-expected impact of a potential delay in the enactment of the Annual Budget Expenditure 
Act, B.E. 256 3 (A.D. 2020) on public expenditure, as well as potential implementation delay 
and lack of continuity in government policies, (3) larger -than-expected effects from a slowdown 
in household income growth on private consumption  driven by factors including a s evere 
impact from export sector on employment , and the impact of intensifying drought  on farm 
income , and (4) global financial stability risks which could impact the economy in the medium 
term. On the other hand, there were possibilities that the Thai econ omy would outperform 
the baseline projection attributable to (1) higher -than-expected growth of trading partner 
economies if there were additional government stimulus measures, improvements in trade 
tensions, as well as faster - and better -than-expected rec overy in the electronics cycle, and (2) 
higher -than-expected domestic demand as a result of public infrastructure investment and 
PPP projects, which may incentivize private sector to invest further  and faster, as well as the 
potential implementation of add itional government stimulus measures such as continuation of 
private consumption stimulus measures in 2020 and investment promotion  policy . Meanwhile, 
there remained downside risks to headline and core inflation projections,  (Chart 2.2 5 
and Chart 2.2 6) in line with risks to the economic growth projection.  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.24 Growth forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               29  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2018* 2019 2020
GDP growth 4.1 2.5 (2.8) 2.8 (3.3)
Domestic demand 3.9 3.4 (3.3) 3.2 (3.7)
     Private consumption 4.6 4.4 (3.8) 3.0 (3.1)
     Private investment 3.9 2.5 (3.0) 3.4 (4.8)
     Government consumption 1.8 2.2 (2.3) 2.6 (3.4)
     Public investment 3.3 1.7 (2.5) 6.3 (6.3)
Exports of goods and services 4.2 -4.8 (-2.3) 1.4 (2.3)
imports of goods and services 8.6 -4.3 (-2.6) 1.6 (2.9)
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 28.5 35.2 (34.2) 30.0 (30.4)
Value of merchandise exports 7.5 -3.3 (-1.0) 0.5 (1.7)
Value of merchandise imports 13.7 -5.2 (-3.6) 1.4 (3.5)
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 38.2 39.9 (39.7) 41.7 (41.2)
Note: *Outturns
( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2019Annual percentage change
Chart 2.25 Headline inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
Chart 2.26 Core inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               30 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
More a ccommodative monetary policy  should support economic growth  and the rise of 
headline inflation toward target. Meanwhile, there remained financial stability risks which 
warranted monitoring and should be addressed by a wide range of targeted measures.  
 At the meeting  on 6 November  2019, the Committee voted 5 to 2 to cut the policy 
rate by 0.25 percentage point from 1.5 0 to 1.25 percent. Two members voted to maintain 
the policy rate at 1. 50 percent. The Committee assessed that the Thai economy would 
expand at a lower rate than previously assessed and further below its potential due to a decline 
in exports  which affect ed employment and domestic demand. Headline i nflation was projected 
to be lower than the lower bound of the inflation target. Overall financial conditions remained 
accommodative.  Financial stability ris ks had already been addressed to some extent, although 
there remained pockets of risks that warranted monitoring.  Most members viewed that more 
accommodative monetary policy stance should support  economic growth and the rise of 
headline inflation toward ta rget. They  thus voted to cut the policy rate at this meeting.  
Nevertheless, two members viewed that under the already accommodative monetary policy 
at present, the policy rate cut might not lend additional support to economic growth, compared 
with potentia lly increased financial stability risks. In addition, there remained a need to 
preserve the limited policy space for coping with potentially increasing risks in the future.  
At the meeting  on 18 December 2019, the Committee voted unanimously to 
maintain the  policy rate at 1. 25 percent. The Committee assessed that the Thai economy 
would expand at a lower rate than the previous forecast and below its potential due to a decline 
in exports which affected employment and domestic demand. Headline inflation was pro jected 
to be below the lower bound of the inflation target. Overall financial conditions remained 
accommodative due to the previous two policy rate cuts. Financial stability risks had already 
been  addressed to some extent, although there remained pockets of risks that warranted 
monitoring. The Committee viewed that more accommodative monetary policy  stance  in the 
recent period would support  economic growth and the rise of headline inflation toward target. 
The Committee thus voted to maintain the policy rat e at this meeting.  
 Looking ahead , the Committee would be data -dependent by closely monitoring the 
developments of the outlook for growth, inflation, and financial stability, together with associated  
risks, in deliberating appropriate monetary policy going  forward. The Committee would stand 
ready to use policy tools as appropriate  and monitor  structural problems which would affect 
competitiveness and growth outlook going forward. This should be firmly addressed  by all 
related parties.  
In determining the mos t appropriate course of monetary policy, details on the key 
assessment are as follows.  
The Thai economy and inflation were expected to expand at a lower rate than previously 
assessed , but would gradually improve in 2020 . 
Developments of economic indicators in the fourth quarter of 2019 reflected that 
economic activities would slow down more than previously assessed.  In particular, 
clearer impacts of trade tensions on merchandise exports were observed. In addition, structural   
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               31 changes in the manufac turing sector affected export competitiveness, which in turn had increasingly  
knock -on effects on  investment, private consumption , and employment.  Nevertheless,  the 
Committee viewed that the global economic outlook started to exhibit more stabiliz ing 
growt h, resulting in an improving outlook for Thai exports and economic growth in 2020.  
Meanwhile, the output gap would remain  negative throughout the forecast horizon, reflecting 
that demand -pull inflationary pressures  remained subdued . This partly contributed  to headline 
inflation s in 2019 and 2020 which would be below the lower bound of the inflation target.  
Looking ahead, the Thai economy would still face  downside risks from uncertainties pertaining 
to trade tensions and geopolitical risks . Although the US a nd China had unofficially reached 
an agreement on the phase one trade deal, trade negotiations in the period ahead could be 
prolonged and intensified. Despite additional government  stimulus measures implemented in 
the fourth quarter of 2019, public expendi ture might not lend full support to economic growth 
going forward due to a potential delay in the enactment of the Annual Budget Expenditure Act, 
B.E. 2563 (A.D. 2020), as well as  prolonged delays in  some government and state -owned 
enterprise (SOE) investment projects . Moreover, risks from the drought, as well as structural 
changes in the labor market, could weigh on private consumption in the period ahead. Such 
changes  included changes of employment pattern from full -time to temporary contracts, 
adoption of automation, and challenges in upskilling and reskilling the labor force. Against this 
backdrop,  the Committee viewed that more accommodative monetary policy  stance  
would  partly contribute to economic growth and support the rise of headline inflati on 
toward target, allowing both public and private sectors time to adjust themselves during 
economic slowdown .   
With regard to monetary policy under the flexible inflation targeting framework which 
places emphasis on maintaining price stability in the med ium term, ensuring sustainable and 
full-potential economic growth, and preserving financial stability, the Committee and the 
Minister of Finance ha d mutually agreed to propose headline inflation within the range 
of 1.0 – 3.0 percent as the monetary policy ’s medium -term target and the target for 2020.  
(Box:  Monetary policy target  for the medium -term horizon  and for 2020 ) The new target was 
consistent with changing economic and financial context.  
The Committee was concern ed and closely monitored impact  of the baht on the economy.  
Over recent period s, the baht continued to strengthen  mainly  on account of  a large current 
account surplus and foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows  in some periods . However, there were net 
outflows   of non -resident portfolio investment from the bond and stock markets , partly as a result of the 
Bank of Thailand ’s measures to enhance surveillances of short-term capital flows implemented in July 
2019 which helped limit channels for speculation on the baht  appreciation. The Commit tee assessed that 
a continued appreciation of the  baht ha d a more pronounced impact on merchandise exports and the 
overall econom y amid a slowdown of  trading partner  economies  and stronger international competition. 
Signs of such impact  were evident in  lower corporate profitability  and liquidity, deteriorating debt 
serviceability , and a fast reduction in employment in export -related manufacturing sectors . The 
Committee remained concerned about the baht appreciation against trading  partner  currencies  
and supported the relaxation of foreign exchange regulations to encourage capital outflows and 
lessen pressures on the baht, as well as allow greater  flexibility  when undertaking foreign exchange 
transactions so that private sector would be able to manage for eign exchange risks more conveniently . 
(Box: Measures to manage the baht and capital flows in 2019 ) The Committee would also  closely 
monitor  impacts  from developments  of exchange  rates  on the economy and assess the  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               32 effectiveness of the implemented relaxation of foreign exchange regulations to encourage 
capital outflows and consider implementing additional measures  if necessary . The  additional 
measures  include d those under the Bank of Thailand ’s authority  and those  require d collaboration 
with other organizations , including efforts to stimulate investment to reduce large  current account 
surplus.  In addition, the Committee pointed out that movements of the baht were more  two-way 
following the Bank of Thailand’s relaxation of foreign exchange regulation to encourage capital outflows, 
and there were signs of capital outflows in the recent periods such as a merger and acquisition abroad 
by Thai commercial bank and sales of T hai businesses by foreign investors.  
Financial stability risks had been addressed to some extent,  although  there remained  pockets 
of risks that warranted monitoring and should be  addressed by a wide range of  targeted 
measures . 
The Committee assessed that financial stability remained sound overall. However,  
there remained a need to monitor risks that could pose vulnerabilities to financial 
stability in the future, especially during the period of economic slowdown which might 
increase risks from income shocks to households and businesses . An assessment using  
various types of financial stability indicators revealed risks in the real estate  market abated, 
following the implementation of the loan-to-value (LTV)  measure and softening economic 
growth outlook. This was reflected by a continued slowdown in mortgage l oans, more 
tightening lending standards among financial institutions, postponement of new project 
launches by some real estate developers, and a decline in residential prices, especially 
condominium prices. Nevertheless, some risks had yet to  improve. Thes e risks included, (1) 
risks from vulnerabilities to income shocks during periods of economic slowdown , as 
households and businesses, especially SMEs, were already highly vulnerable in terms of debt 
serviceability  due to structural problems, (2) oversupply of condominium in certain areas , 
with additional impact on developers due to both domestic and external demand slowdown, 
and (3) risks stemming from the search -for-yield behavior, which could lead to 
underpricing of risks, in the environment that both dome stic and international policy 
rates could stay lower for longer . Leverages of large corporates might increase to the point 
that they could create  risks to the whole financial system (too big to fail), or saving cooperatives 
might increase investment in ris ky assets which could lead to risks to a wide range  of their  
members (too many to fail). In addition,  given the low interest rate environment , households 
would likely accumulate more debt inconsistently with their debt serviceability .  
 The Committee expressed concerns about  elevated household debt that was 
expected to rise further , as it c ould affect ability of households to cope with income shocks. 
Thus, the Committee would closely monitor the debt  service ratio (DSR) data in accordance with the 
standardized calculation methodology agreed between the Bank of Thailand and commercial banks, 
where financial institutions started reporting the data since the end of 2019. In addition,  the Committee  
would monitor  debt serviceability of households and SMEs, which was expected to  deteriorate during 
economic slowdown. Meanwhile, the Committee viewed that address ing financial stability risks in the 
period ahead would require a holistic consideration of the policy interest rate, microprudenti al 
measures, macroprudential measures, as well as structural measures including debt restructuring. 
Understanding of different groups  of households, such as  vulnerable households  with high debt or 
households  without  financial discipline , would be crucial in considering  targeted and appropriate 
solutions for  different group s of households. Appropriate timing of implementation would also be 
considered in order to prevent adverse impact to the economic growth.   
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               33 Monetary policy target for the medium -term horizon and for 2020  
The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) implements monetary policy under the flexible 
inflation targeting framework. While regarding medium -term price stability as its primary  objective, 
the MPC also aims at supporting sustainable, full-potential economic growth and preserving 
financial stability .  
Setting the monetary policy target consistent  with changing  economic and financial 
context, as well as changing inflation dynamics , is a crucial factor that allows the MPC to 
conduct monet ary policy to achieve all 3 objectives effectively . In the review of monetary policy 
target for 2020, the MPC and the Minister of Finance mutually agreed on December 6, 2019 , to 
propose a new monetary policy target, specifying headline inflation within the  range of 1.0 – 3.0 
percent as the monetary policy  target on price stability for  the medium -term horizon as well 
as for 2020. The new target replaces an annual average headline inflation of 2.5 + 1.5 percent, 
which had been  set as the monetary policy target since 2015.  
Reasons for proposing the new monetary policy target   
The revisions of the monetary policy target strove to ensure that the new target was 
appropriate and consistent with changing  economic and financial context, as well as changing  
inflation dynamics, which comprise:   
1. The downward trend of inflation  due to structural changes, which have taken place 
both in Thailand and other countries . Such changes include (1) technological advancements,  
which boost production and reduce  costs. In particular, technological advancements in extracting 
shale oil have increased global su pply of crude oil, hence putting downward pressures on global 
crude oil prices and driving down Thailand’s ener gy inflation. Meanwhile, the advancements in 
agricultural technologies, which help increase production  and reduce  costs, have contributed to  lower 
fresh food inflation over recent periods. In addition, the adoption of modern technologies in 
production proc esses has led to a decline in costs and prices of technological products such as 
electronic products and electrical appliances. (2) An expansion of e -commerce has reduced the 
cost of sales  for goods and services, and enhanced price competition since consumers can 
compare prices of goods and services more easily. Hence, prices of goods and services  cannot 
be raised  rapidly  as in the past. (3) The aging society  has led to an overall declin ing tre nd in 
demand for goods and services. As the elderly normally have  lower income after retirement, a rise 
in the old  age population exert s a negative effect on demand -pull inflationary pressures.  All these 
structural factors have, to a significant extent, le d to low headline inflation since 2015, thereby 
weighing on the ability to anchor the public’s inflation expectations and reducing the effectiveness 
of monetary policy in maintaining price stability.  
2. High volatilit ies and uncertaint ies prevailing in  the global and Thai economies. 
The global economic and financial systems have become more complex and interconnected, 
rendering the Thai economy more exposed to external factors  such as trade protectionism and 
geopolitical risks. Moreover, preserving financia l stability becomes of greater importance.  In 
particular, the currently prolonged low interest rate environment has induced more search -for-yield 
behavior and could lead to underpricing of risks. This might, in turn, contribute to the build -up of 
risks to the financial system that could escalate i nto a financial crisis. Consequently, monetary 
policy must be sufficiently flexible to cope with changes in economic circumstances and 
financial stability risks that may build up in the period  ahead.   
  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               34 Details of the monetary policy target for the medium -term horizon and for 2020   
 1. Changing the type of inflation target from the point target with tolerance band to  
the range target to enhance flexibility in monetary policy formulation  amid more  volatile and 
uncertain global economic circumstances. The range target will allow the MPC to fulfill economic  
growth and financial stability objectives more effectively.  
Under the original point target  with tolerance band, although headline inflation can deviate 
away from the target midpoint in the short term, monetary policy is required to attain the midpoint 
in the medium term, which may have adverse side -effects on other policy objectives, i.e. , ensuring 
sustainable , full-potential economic growth and preserving financial stability . Meanwhile, the range 
target will help reduce  the need to attain the target midpoint, while allowing movements of inflation 
in the medium term to reflect more of the prevailing structural changes at any given time period.  
2. Setting the lower bound and t he upper bound of monetary policy target at 1.0 and 
3.0 percent, respectively, in line with changing inflation dynamics. The MPC assessed that 
such inflation range was sufficiently flexible and could accommodate future inflation pressures that 
would remain  low due to structural factors. The lower bound of 1.0 percent was not too low to  
trigger the de -anchoring of the public’s inflation expectations, which if impaired, might contribute 
to even more deflationary pressures and limited  monetary policy space over the long term. 
Meanwhile, the upper bound of  .  percent was not too high to affect households’ costs of living 
and the economy’s growth potential, while also indicating limited inflationary pressures. 
Furthermore, the target ba nd of 2.0 percentage points was not too wide and was well -aligned with 
that of other countries. It also ensured the MPC’s commitment in maintaining price stability, even 
though the new policy target would allow for greater monetary policy flexibility to pr omote 
sustainable and full -potential economic growth as well as to preserve financial stability .  
 In addition, the MPC and the Minister of Finance also mutually agreed to adjust  the 
criteria for issuing an open letter in case of headline inflation breach ing the inflation target.   
The former criterion stipulated that the MPC would issue an open letter whenever headline inflation 
averaged over the calendar year remained outside the  inflation target. Meanwhile, under the new 
criteria , the MPC shall send an o pen letter to the Minister of Finance, should average 
headline inflation in the past 12 months or a forecast of av erage headline inflation over 12 
months ahead breach the target range. The MPC will also write an additional open letter 
every 6 months if average headline inflation based on the above criteria remains outside 
the target range.  The adjustment in the criteria will enable the MPC to show accountability and 
communicate with the public in a timely manner, i.e., without having to wait u ntil end of the calendar 
year, while also complying with the forward -looking principle for the conduct  of monetary policy .  
  
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               35 Implications of the new target on the conduct of monetary policy  
The revisions of the monetary policy target will enhance  flexibility in conducting  
monetary policy to attain all 3 objectives more effectively. In particular, through reducing  the 
need to bring inflation back to the target midpoint, the MPC can deliberate monetary policy in the 
manner that is more appropriate a nd consistent with changes in the economic and financial context 
in each time period.     
Despite the target revisions, the MPC’s  principles for the conduct of  monetary policy 
remain unaltered . That is,  (1) at each meeting, the MPC will be data -dependent by closely 
monitor developments  of economic growth, inflation , and financial stability, together with other 
associated risks, in formulating appropriate monetary policy.  (2) The MPC will consider thoroughly  
the importance of each of the 3  policy objectives at a given time period, by taking into 
consideration the impact  of implementing each monetary policy option on the economy  overall,  
both in the short and long term, and appropriately weighing benefits and costs of  each option , i.e., 
policy trade -offs, under the prevailing economic context at a given  time period . And, (3) the MPC 
stands ready to utilize various policy tools in an integrated manner , such as the policy rate, 
microprudential measures, and macroprudential measures, which  should allow the conduct of 
monetary policy to achieve the 3 policy objectives effectively.   
Nonetheless, adopting the range target as the new monetary policy target may reduce  
the ability to anchor the public’s inflation expectations  since the target midp oint is not clearly 
stated as in the previous  target. Furthermore, greater monetary policy flexibility increases  
challenge s for the public’s expectations about in the policy rate path , which  could in turn 
affect decision -makings in various economic activities as well as the effectiveness of monetary 
policy. Therefore, communication aimed at anchoring the public’s inflation expectations will  
be more crucial in each period. The good communicati on will promote public con fidence in the 
MPC’s key mandate to maintain  price stability  and allow better public’s expectations on the  future  
directions of monetary policy . This will empower the conduct of monetary policy to fulfill its 
mandates and extend t he greatest benefits to the Thai economy .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               36 Measures to manage the baht and capital flows in 2019  
The Bank of Thailand (BOT) has conducted monetary policy under the flexible inflation 
targeting framework with managed floating exchange rate regime. The BOT will manage the baht 
in case of excessive volatility that could affect the economy and business adjustments. In this light, 
in 2019, the BOT has implemented measures to manage the baht and capital flows through multiple 
policy tools as summ arized below. (Chart  1)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Measures to enhance surveillance of short -term capital flows13/ 
The global financial market  became increasingly volatile in 2019.  Trade tensions between 
the US and China , together with  global economic slowdown , prompted central banks in many 
countries to shift toward s more accommodative monetary policy stance. These developments have 
driven capital inflows back to the emerging markets (EMs) once again, particularly during June – July. 
Meanwhile , as most foreign investors had a more positive outlook on the baht relative to other EM s 
currencies, th ey increas ed their positions in the baht and Thai securities, in part for short -term 
speculative purpose. This led to a rapid appreciation of the baht relative to regiona l currencies, 
which could lead to unfavorable economic repercussions. Thus, the BOT announced measures to 
enhance surveillance of short -term capital flows on July 12, 2019. Details of the measures are as follow.   
(1) Enhance measures to prevent Thai baht speculation  by reducing the limit on the 
outstanding balance of Non -resident Baht Account (NRBA) and Non -resident Baht Account for 
Securities (NRBS) at the end of the day from 300 million baht to 200 million baht per non -resident. 
This measure will help limit channel s for short -term speculative flows of non -residents.  
 
(2) Enhance the reporting requirements for non -residents’ holdings of debt securities  
issued in Thailand where custodians are required to report more information on all non -residents’ 
holdings o f Thai debt securities in order to get further information on the names of ultimate 
beneficial owners (UBO s). This measure will help enhance the BOT’s surveillance of non -residents’ 
                                           
13/  BOT Press Release No.38/2019 , July  2, 2   , “Measures to Enhance Surveillance of Short -term Capital Flows”  
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               37 behaviors of debt  security investment, which will be beneficial for analys es on capital flow outlook 
and formulation  of appropriate policies  going forward.  
 Following the implementation  of the abovementioned measures, foreign investors ’ investment s 
in Thai securities, both in the debt and equity  markets, have become  net capital outflows since August 
2019. These measures were therefore effective in managing capital flows of non -residents to some extent. 
However, the baht movements remained  volatile in line with other factors apart from non -residents’ capital 
flows. In  particular, a persistent current account surplus due to proceeds from merchandise exports and 
tourism, while imports for investment remain low, results in a continuation of net capital inflows from 
international trades. Hence, f oreign investors still perc eive the baht as a safe -haven asset among EM s.  
Relaxation of rules to facilitate capital outflows and lessen pressure on the Thai baht14/ 
Given the aforementioned circumstances where capital flow imbalances have pressured 
the baht to continue appreciating,  the Ministry of Finance and the BOT decided to relax regulations 
to facilitate capital outflows to help promote balances of capital flow and lessen pressure on the 
baht. Such relaxations will also provide greater convenience in conducting foreign exchange  
transactions. These relaxations were announced on November 6, 2019, and have been effective 
since November 8, 2019, with details as follows:  
(1)  Exemptions on repatriation of export proceeds  
 (1.1) Exporters with proceeds below USD 200,000 per bill of lading are allowed to keep the 
proceeds abroad, without a time limit and without having to repatriate proceeds back to Thailand in 
accordance with the previous regulations. Meanwhile, bills of lading with value less than USD 200,000 in 
2018 amounted to exp ort value of over USD 100 billion, accounting for almost half of all Thai exports.  
 (1.2) Exporters are allowed to use the revenues from exports to offset foreign currency 
expenses (multilateral netting), without prior approval from the BOT.  
 (1.3) Businesses are allowed to open just only one  foreign currency deposit (FCD) account 
with onshore banks, where as the previous regulation required an opening of two separate accounts 
according to sources of foreign currency.15/ 
          The above relaxations will allow exporters  to keep proceeds abroad for future transactions, help 
reduce fund transfer costs , and manage foreign exchange risks more efficiently. Exporters are able to wait 
for the appropriate  time to repatriate the proceeds back and exchange to baht at their own convenience. 
Meanwhile , the BOT has a preliminary  discussion with the Minister of Finance to increase the 
threshold for export proceeds that do not need to be repatriated from USD 200,000 to USD 1 
million per bill of lading within the next 3 months (around the first quarter of 2020) . Such relaxations 
will cover  a larger amount of exports, accounting for approximately 80 percent of total export  value . 
 (2)  Investment in foreign securities  
 (2.1) Retail investors are allowed to invest up to USD 200,000 per year in foreign 
securities, without having to invest via a domestic intermediary or to meet a specified criteria in 
terms of asset ownership.  
                                           
14/ BOT Press Release No.66/2019 , November 6, 2   , “The BOT relaxes rules to facilitate capital outflows and 
lessen pressure on the Thai baht”  
15/  Two accounts include FCD account for foreign currencies that are received from overseas and FCD account for  
foreign currencies that are purchased from domestic sources for future payments overseas. Consolidation of 
the two accounts will allow greater flexibility for businesses in receiving and transferring funds via FCD  account.   
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               38  (2.2) The aggregate investment limit for investment in foreign securities  allocated to 
investors regulated by the Thai Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), such as securities 
companies and mutual funds, is increased to USD 150 billion (from the previous aggregate 
investment limit at USD 100 billion ).  
This relaxation will  allow both institutional and retail investors in Thailand to invest more in 
foreign securities. In addition to increased investment opportunities and risks diversification, it will 
also encourage more capital outflows to offset capital inflows. This will in turn promote capital flow 
balance and help lessen pressure on the baht.  
 (3)  Outward transfers  
 (3.1) Outward transfers are allowed freely except for a few specific purposes that require 
prior approval from the BOT (negative list).  
 (3.2) Individuals who wish to relocate abroad or transfer funds to relatives abroad will be 
able to do so freely. Those who wish to purchase real estate abroad will be allowed to do so up to 
USD 50 million per year and the property can be both in own name or the name of a f amily member. 
This relaxation will help facilitate migration as well as sending children to study abroad.  
 (3.3) Documentation will no longer need to be provided to commercial banks when 
conducting outward transfers of less than USD 200,000 to facilitate t he ease of conducting foreign 
exchange transactions  
 This relaxation is a change in concept : Outward transfers , which we re previously allowed based 
on specific purposes (positive list) , are now allowed  freely except for a few specific purposes (negative 
list). Moreover, the increase from USD 50,000 to USD 200,000  in the outward transfer limit  at which 
documentation submission is not needed  will help promote faster and easier outward transfers.  
 (4) Settlement of gold trading in foreign currency  
           Thai investors are allowed to trade gold in foreign currencies, through FCD accounts opened  
with onshore commercial banks, with designated gold trading companies that have received 
approval from the BOT. Investors are able to keep foreign currency proceeds from gold investment 
in their FCD accounts, without having to exchange into baht for the n ext purchases. In addition,  the 
BOT is also prepared to approve gold futures trading in foreign currencies in the next phase . 
Allowing for gold trading in foreign currency will help reduce pressures on the baht. This 
was because in the recent period, when Thai investors sold gold to gold trading companies, these 
companies would export gold, repatriate the proceeds from gold trading, and exchange into baht. 
This exerted pressures on the baht, especially when there was accelerated sale of gold in the period  
of a rapid increase in gold prices .  
Promoting structural policies and building an ecosystem that encourages businesses to manage  
foreign exchange risk   
A large current account surplus is considered a major structural factor causing the 
baht to continue app reciating. An increase in domestic investment, by boosting imports of 
capital goods, will help reduce current account surplus and pressure on the baht, as well 
as enhance competitiveness in the long run. The BOT supports the government’s focus on 
infrastru cture investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) and the public -private 
partnership (PPP), where investment should be accelerated to take place within the planned time 
frame. In addition, the government’s focus on investment in digital infrastructur e, including 5G  
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               39 network and related technologies  will also provide a foundation for driving Thailand’s digital economy  
going forward .  
In this regard, the BOT has continued to take various actions in order to prevent and 
mitigate the impact of the baht volatilities, by focusing on building  an ecosystem that encourages 
the private sector to manage foreign exchange risks appropriately. Spec ifically, the BOT 
provided knowledge on foreign exchange risk management to businesses, particularly to 
SMEs, supported the use of FCD account and other financial instruments such as forwards, futures, 
and options through the FX Risk Management Program fo r SMEs Phase 216/. Furthermore, businesses  
were also encouraged to use local currencies for international trade and investment  to 
reduce risks from volatilities of major currencies. In this regard, the BOT has cooperated with many 
central banks in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), including Malaysia, Indonesia, 
Cambodia, Laos, and the Philippines, to support the  use of local currencies .   
Looking ahead, exchange rates and capital flows would likely be more volatile, which 
will be a challenge for every party to adjust themselves in a timely manner. The private sector 
should manage foreign exchange risk regularly. Nevertheless, acceleration of domestic investment 
and the relaxation of regulations to facilitate capital outflows will help reduce pressures from a large 
current account surplus on the baht. However, this would take times for businesses and Thai 
investors  to adjust themselves. In the period ahead, the BOT will closely monitor developments of 
exchange rate and capital flows, and stand ready to use several policy tools jointly in an appropriate 
manner to cope with volatilities in the financial market in the future.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
16/ The FX Risk Management Program for SMEs Phase 2 (November 2018 – November 2019) aims to furnish SMEs 
with knowledge on benefits and foreign exchange risk hedging tools, as well as provide opportunities for SMEs 
a trial on the currency insuranc e or FX options trading by offering money support of THB 50,000 per business .    
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               40 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
2018 2019
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
4.0 4.1 5.0 4.7 3.2 3.6 2.8 2.3 2.4
Production
3.7 5.1 6.8 10.5 3.2 0.7 1.7 -1.3 1.5
4.1 4.0 4.8 4.2 3.1 4.0 2.9 2.6 2.3
Manufacturing3.0 3.0 3.7 3.1 1.5 3.5 0.6 -0.2 -1.5
Construction-2.8 2.7 1.2 1.9 4.5 3.4 3.0 3.4 2.7
Wholesales and retail trade7.0 7.3 7.0 7.4 7.5 7.5 6.8 5.9 5.6
Accommodation and Food Service10.6 7.9 13.1 8.8 4.1 5.3 4.9 3.7 6.6
Transport and storage8.2 5.7 7.1 5.4 4.5 5.4 3.5 2.3 2.5
Information and Communication2.7 6.8 5.2 7.7 7.4 6.9 6.5 8.7 7.4
Financial intermediation5.4 3.3 3.5 4.6 3.1 1.8 2.0 1.8 3.8
Real estate and renting6.5 5.2 6.0 4.0 5.9 4.9 4.7 3.1 2.6
Domestic demand 2.1 3.9 3.3 3.6 4.3 4.3 4.1 3.3 3.4
Private consumption 3.0 4.6 3.8 4.1 5.2 5.4 4.9 4.6 4.2
Private investment 2.9 3.9 3.1 3.1 3.8 5.5 4.4 2.1 2.4
Government consumption 0.1 1.8 1.8 2.3 1.9 1.4 3.4 1.1 1.8
Public investment -1.2 3.3 4.0 4.9 4.2 -0.1 -0.1 1.4 3.7
Imports of goods and services6.2 8.6 9.1 8.8 11.0 5.7 -0.1 -2.6 -6.8
imports of goods7.4 8.1 10.4 7.9 9.9 4.5 -2.6 -3.4 -7.7
imports of services1.3 10.7 3.9 12.8 16.1 10.4 10.6 0.2 -2.8
Exports of goods and services5.4 4.2 8.0 9.6 -0.9 0.7 -6.1 -7.9 -1.0
exports of goods5.7 4.1 7.2 9.5 -0.5 0.8 -5.9 -5.8 -0.3
exports of services4.6 4.4 9.9 10.3 -2.2 0.0 -7.2 -14.7 -3.2
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars)32.6 22.4 7.4 6.4 3.9 4.6 6.7 6.0 8.0
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars)*44.0 28.5 14.2 4.2 3.8 6.3 12.4 5.2 9.2
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars)-12.5 -14.9 -3.3 -8.1 -1.1 -2.5 -5.1 -2.5 -1.1
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars)202.6 205.6 215.6 206.8 204.5 205.6 212.2 215.8 220.5
Unemployment rate (%)1.2 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0 1.0
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%) n.a. n.a. 1.2 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0
Note: *Outturns, which are subject to revisions according to changes in statistical compilation methods
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of Thailand2018 2017
ExpenditurePercent
GDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agriculture 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard
2018 2018
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
1. Financial market sector
1.1 0.7 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.3
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,753.7 1,563.9 1,776.3 1,595.6 1,756.4 1,563.9 1,638.7 1,730.3 1,637.2 1,601.5 1,590.6
Actual volatility of SET index1/6.5 12.1 9.4 12.3 11.6 14.0 8.4 7.8 10.7 10.0 10.8
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 19.1 14.8 18.3 16.2 17.3 14.8 17.1 18.6 18.7 18.5 19.5
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/4.4 3.3 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.7 4.6 4.5 4.5 3.2 2.7
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 110.6 115.6 114.8 115.2 115.4 117.0 120.0 121.2 125.0 127.1 126.8
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 103.7 107.2 106.3 106.8 107.0 108.3 110.1 111.3 114.6 115.9 115.4
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR )4/6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.08
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.42 1.46 1.45 1.45 1.38
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 18.2 18.3 18.1 17.9 18.4 18.3 18.2 18.0 19.2 n.a. n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 187.1 207.2 50.2 56.4 51.1 49.5 57.1 60.8 96.5 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.2 2.0 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 96.1 98.2 95.0 96.8 98.2 98.2 96.8 97.9 97.1 n.a. n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 78.4 78.6 77.8 77.7 77.9 78.6 78.7 78.7 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.6 2.4 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.5 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.8 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.5 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 1.6 1.7 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.8 1.9 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 2.6 2.3 3.2 2.4 2.5 2.3 2.5 2.2 2.4 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.5 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.5 2.4 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 8.0 7.5 7.9 7.8 8.0 6.5 7.5 5.9 7.4 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.8 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 6.5 6.4 7.1 6.5 6.6 5.4 5.2 3.8 4.8 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.7 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.7 1.5 1.7 1.7 n.a. n.a.
SMEs 4.4 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.7 4.5 4.6 4.5 4.9 n.a. n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 5 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisionsBond market
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Indicators 2017 2018 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               42  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
2018 2019
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 65,124       73,361   15,012 17,921 18,805 21,623 19,710 15,983 17,141 4,894   n.a.
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 14,517       15,912   3,527   3,827   3,948   4,610   4,446   3,460   4,136   1,101   n.a.
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 21,469       25,042   5,167   6,055   6,325   7,495   7,290   5,719   6,129   1,674   n.a.
 Condominiums 29,138       32,407   6,318   8,039   8,532   9,518   7,974   6,804   6,876   2,119   n.a.
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 110,575     114,477 26,829 19,836 42,451 35,861 29,498 25,999 26,505 14,451 17,503 
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 19,433       14,280   4,223   2,790   6,248   5,050   4,458   4,213   4,822   1,938   3,280   
Townhouses and commercial buildings 32,792       36,571   6,657   6,548   8,759   10,385 5,236   7,940   8,837   2,178   5,664   
Condominiums 58,350       63,626   15,949 10,498 27,444 20,426 19,804 13,846 12,846 10,335 8,559   
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 130.9 138.8 137.8 138.0 139.5 139.0 141.9 142.9 145.0 144.9 n.a.
Townhouses (including land) 141.1 149.9 146.0 149.6 151.2 151.1 156.6 154.7 154.6 156.8 n.a.
Condominiums 169.6 180.9 179.8 177.6 180.1 185.9 181.6 177.0 179.0 177.3 n.a.
Land 171.7 175.8 170.4 173.5 172.9 177.6 175.5 168.1 167.1 169.8 n.a.
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%) 40.7 41.2 41.2 41.0 42.1 41.9 41.9 41.4 41.5 41.0 n.a.
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%) 9.6 5.6 11.0 3.4 3.1 4.9 9.3 4.0 6.8 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)6/36.7 35.5 36.5 35.1 35.5 35.5 35.1 34.8 34.0 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 155.2 162.4 157.5 154.2 159.0 162.4 164.5 166.7 166.2 170.2 169.5
Short-term (%) 44.3 39.0 42.9 42.9 41.6 39.0 38.5 37.5 35.3 34.3 34.5
Long-term (%) 55.7 61.0 57.1 57.1 58.4 61.0 61.5 62.5 64.7 65.7 65.5
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 2.9 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.4 3.5 3.8 3.8 3.8
Note:
6/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDP2018 Indicators 2017 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               43  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
2019 2020 2021
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2
2.0-2.5 0 0 0 1 4 5 5 6 6
1.5-2.0 0 0 2 7 11 12 12 12 12
1.0-1.5 0 4 17 20 20 21 19 19 18
0.5-1.0 0 42 39 31 25 24 23 22 21
0.0-0.5 100 47 31 25 21 19 19 18 18
(-0.5)-0.0 0 7 9 12 12 11 12 12 12
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 0 1 3 5 5 6 6 6
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
< -2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
2019 2020 2021
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 9 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 3
8-9 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 3
7-8 0 0 0 1 3 3 3 4 5
6-7 0 0 1 3 6 5 6 7 7
5-6 0 1 4 7 10 9 9 9 10
4-5 0 7 11 13 14 13 12 12 12
3-4 0 22 19 18 17 15 14 14 13
2-3 100 33 24 20 16 16 15 14 13
1-2 0 24 20 17 14 14 13 12 11
0-1 0 10 13 11 10 10 10 9 9
(-1)-0 0 2 6 6 6 7 7 7 6
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 2 3 3 4 4 4 4
(-3)-(-2) 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 3
< (-3) 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2Percent
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
2019 2020 2021
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 4.0 0 0 0 1 3 5 4 5 6
3.5-4.0 0 0 1 1 2 4 3 3 4
3.0-3.5 0 0 2 2 4 5 4 5 5
2.5-3.0 0 0 4 4 5 7 6 6 6
2.0-2.5 0 1 8 6 7 8 7 8 8
1.5-2.0 0 5 13 9 9 9 9 9 9
1.0-1.5 0 13 16 11 10 10 10 9 9
0.5-1.0 100 23 17 13 10 10 10 10 9
0.0-0.5 0 25 15 13 10 9 10 9 9
(-0.5)-0.0 0 19 11 12 9 8 9 8 8
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 10 7 10 8 7 8 7 7
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 3 4 8 7 5 6 6 6
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 1 2 5 5 4 5 5 5
< -2.0 0 0 1 7 10 7 10 10 10Percent 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               44 4.2 Chart Pack  
Global Economy  
Major advanced and Asian economies slow ed down but would exhibit a more stab ilizing growth in 
the period ahead. In particular, the manufacturing  sector would improve in line with global trade 
volume, partly due to monetary easing and expansionary fiscal policy,  as well as  an unofficial 
agreement between the U.S. and China o ver the phase one trade deal . The agreement  would lead 
to a reduction and exemption of import tariffs  previously  imposed.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4550556065
2   2   2  6 2   2   2   U.S. Euro area JapanDiffusion index
Nov 19
Sources: Bloomberg and EurostatManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
 2    2    2    2 6  2 6  2 62China Hongkong Taiwan
South Korea Malaysia Singapore
Indonesia Philippines Thailand (ex.gold)
Oct 19Export Value Index , 3-month moving average, seasonally 
adjusted (Jan 2014 = 100)Asian exports
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               45 Thai economy  
The Thai economy expand ed at a slower rate mainly due to a slowdown in external demand. 
Government stimulus measures help ed shore up the economy in the short term but could not 
compensate for the effects of trade tensions on merchandise exports, a slow recovery in  the 
electronics cycle, lower global crude oil prices , and Thailand’s declining price competitiveness. 
These would affect  private consumption and private investment.  
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6090120150180
Oct Jan April JulThousandsFY2018 FY2019 FY2020
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulPublic spending by central government
Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
Billion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy OfficeOct 2019
Oct 2019 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               46 Inflation  
Headline inflation declined due to  prices of fresh food and energy, consistent with global crude 
oil prices. Core inflation remained unchanged as falling prices of prepared food were off -set 
by rising prices of personal care. Prices of other categories slowly increased  in line with the  
dome stic economy and effects  of structural factors . Short -term inflation expectations declined 
while long -term inflation expectations increased.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               47 Financial conditions  
Short -term money market rates, short -term government bond yields, a s well as some lending 
rates  and deposit rates of commercial banks  decreased in line with the policy rate. Medium - 
to long -term government bond yields increased mainly due to external factors. Corporate 
financing activities slowed down in both bank credits  and bond market in tandem with 
economic slowdown and tightening lending standards among financial institutions. The baht 
appreciated against the U.S. dollar but exhibited  more two -way movements after the MPC  
lowered the policy rate and the Bank of Thailan d relaxed foreign exchange  regulations  to 
encourage capital outflows  on November 6, 2019.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               48 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-earning (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) stabilized close to 
its historical average, while that of the Market for Alternative Investment (mai) declined . The 
share of unrated bond issuance remained stable .  
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
Stability: household sector  
The ratio of household debt to GDP in the second quarter of 2019 remained high and stabilized 
from the previous quarter but would likely continue  to increase going forward . Regarding credit 
quality of households, the NPL ratio s lightly increased  overall . The ratio of special mention 
loans (SM) increased, reflecting deterioration of consumer credit quality in almost  all loan 
categories, particularly among mortgage, auto -leasing , and credit card loans .  
 
  
  
505560657075808590
Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1
2  22   2   2   2  62   2   2   
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
3/Household debt and GDP data are revised. This results in 
the difference in household debt to GDP ratios compared w ith 
the previous MPR.
Source: Bank of Thailand78.7Household debt1/
Second quarterPercent of GDP 2/
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               49 Stability: corporate sector  
Overall stability in the corporate sector remained sound in the third quarter of 2019. However, 
there was a need to monitor vulnerability of the export sector and debt serviceability of SMEs  
which would likely continue to deteriorate. The NPL ratio  among SMEs increased and remained  
at a high level .  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               50 Stability: real estate  
Oversupply in the real estate market remained high, especially for condominiums. This led to 
a decline in prices of condominium s in the third quarter of 2019 compared with the same period 
in 2018. However, a number of new units launched in Bangkok and its vicinity declined, suggesting  
that real estate developers made adjustments which help ed mitigate the oversupply  concern . 
Nonethe less, there was a need to monitor the ability of developers to adjust to  economic 
slowdown and the LTV measure  which put pressures on demand .  
   
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
145.0154.6179.0
167.1
100110120130140150160170180190200
Q1
2013Q3 Q1
2014Q3 Q1
2015Q3 Q1
2016Q3Q1
2017Q3 Q1
2018Q3 Q1
2019Q3Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate price indices
Index ( 2009 = 100)
Source: Bank of ThailandThird quarter
Note: Calculation based on commercial bank loan data 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               51 Stability: financial institutions  
Financial institutions maintained strong financial positions, as reflected in high levels of capital 
buffers among commercial banks to cushion against risks should credit quality deteriorate. In 
the third quarter of 2019, commercial bank credits expanded a t a slower rate in line with softening  
economic growth outlook. Meanwhile, overall NPL ratio somewhat increased.  
   
 
    
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               52 Stability: external positions  
Thailand’s external stability remained sound, as reflected in high levels of international reserves . 
The ratio of external debt to GDP was below an international benchmark. This would help the 
Thai economy to be resilient against volatilities in the global financial market.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP remained  below the fiscal 
sustainability threshold .  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report  December 2019                                                                                                               53  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
