 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2017  
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
September  2017 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Jamlong Atikul  Member  
Mr. Porametee Vimolsiri  Member  
Mr. Apichai Boontherawara  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  September  2017  
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 7. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardi zing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reasons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance  of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.   Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  4 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions on trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Commodity prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ..............................  9 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ..........................  9 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy ……………………………………………… . 18 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
BOX : Distribution of growth dividends: evidence from the labor market  
 BOX : Household debt deleveraging and implications for the economy  
3. Monetary Policy  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 30 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  34 
4.1 Table  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  34 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Chart Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ .........  38 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   
  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   1 Executive Summary  
1. Global Economy  
The global economy was projected to continue expanding . Advanced economies continued to gain further 
traction driven mainly by expansion in consumption and stronger labor markets. The U.S. economic growth outlook 
improved further on the back of private consumption given strong labor market conditions and impr oved household 
financial positions and consumer confidence. Euro area economies recorded stronger expansion, with growth 
broadening across most member countries thanks to accommodative monetary policy stance and a recovery in 
consumer confidence and labor market conditions. Japan also continued to expand as private consumption picked 
up due to an increase in wages, improved consumer confidence, and accommodative monetary policy. The expansion 
was also driven by growing exports thanks to global trade recover y. Meanwhile, emerging economies in Asia 
continued to grow on the back of improvements in exports, which were underpinned by global demand and 
technological cycle of electronic goods. In addition, private consumption continued upward trajectory as consumer  
confidence gradually improved, although such improvement was not robust given elevated household debt levels. 
The Chinese economy would likely grow at roughly the same pace but was expected to gradually slow down as the 
economic structural reforms began t o bear results. Overall, the growth forecasts for Thailand’s trading partners 
were revised up . However, there remained risks that warranted monitoring such as uncertainties pertaining to U.S. 
economic and foreign trade policies, economic and financial stab ilities concerns in China, and geopolitical risks.  
Most central banks maintained their accommodative monetary policy stances, although a few central banks 
raised their policy rates . As for the Federal Reserve (Fed), the Fed was expected to commence its bal ance sheet 
reduction and gradually raise its federal funds rate, as the U.S. economy was approaching full employment and 
headline inflation was projected to slowly rise. However, central banks of some Asian countries, namely Vietnam, 
India, and Indonesia, cut their policy rates in order to support further growth.  
Crude oil prices remained stable but would slowly rise going forward  in tandem with global economic recovery 
and production cuts by major oil producers. The Committee therefore maintained the proj ection for Dubai crude oil 
price at 50.9 and 52.8 U.S. dollars per barrel in 2017 and 2018, respectively.  
2. Recent Economic Developments  
The Thai economy gained further traction in the second quarter of 2017.  The growth was primarily driven by 
external de mand from both exports and tourism with signs of greater positive spillovers to domestic demand. 
Meanwhile, private consumption continued to grow in line with spending on services and durable goods. Public 
spending remained an important growth driver. More over, headline inflation increased somewhat in the first two 
months of the third quarter due to higher domestic retail oil prices and energy charges (FT), while core inflation was 
largely unchanged from the previous quarter.  
Financial conditions remained a ccommodative.  Most short -term money market rates remained close to the policy 
rate. However, Thai government bond yields declined across all tenures, particularly short -term bond yields that fell 
significantly in July following the reduction of the Bank of  Thailand’s short -term bond issuances and a suspension of 
treasury bill issuance by the government at the end of the fiscal year. However, yields began to pick up due to market 
adjustments. Meanwhile, the decline in medium -term and long -term yields was inf luenced by external factors including 
a slower -than-expected rise in the federal funds rate and conflicts in the Korean Peninsula. With regard to financing 
costs, the new loan rate remained stable at a low level after having declined in the previous period . Private credit 
expanded due to an increase in loans extended to households and large corporates in export - and tourism -related 
businesses. In addition, business financing through equity market continued to expand, although funding through the 
bond market  contracted somewhat as matured debts of some telecommunication and energy companies were not 
replaced by new debt issuances. With regard to exchange rates, the baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar from the 
previous quarter. This was attributable to th e weakening of the U.S. dollar and other domestically driven factors such 
as higher -than-expected current account surplus and sizable foreign direct investment flows into Thailand in this 
quarter. Nevertheless, the baht’s movement relative to those of trad ing partners was largely unchanged.  
Financial stability remained sound overall but there remained pockets of risks that might result in the buildup 
of vulnerabilities in the financial system going forward.  External stability continued to be strong while f inancial 
positions of large corporates and financial institutions remained sound. Financial institutions maintained high levels of 
capital buffers and loan loss provisions to cushion themselves against risks. Nevertheless, there remained pockets of 
risks t hat could potentially lead to the buildup of vulnerabilities in the financial system going forward. These included 
(1) debt serviceability of both households and businesses that remained fragile, (2) search -for-yield behavior, and (3) 
oversupply of condomi nium units in Bangkok and vicinity areas as well as large -scale mixed -use real estate 
developments.   
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   2 3. Economic Outlook  
Looking ahead, the Thai economy was projected to expand further, recording 3.8 percent in 2017 and 2018.  
The upward revision to the prev ious forecast was on account of a continued improvement in merchandise exports 
and tourism. In addition, private spending gradually rose and was more broad -based while fiscal impulse remained.  
The expansion in merchandise exports was more broad -based acros s product categories and export 
destinations , with improvements seen across exporting firms of all sizes. The value of merchandise exports in 2017 
was projected to grow by 8 percent in tandem with global economic recovery. Exports of electronics would like ly 
expand in line with the technological cycle, while several products also benefited from the relocation of production 
bases to Thailand. Moreover, export prices were also projected to trend up, especially commodities, in line with crude 
oil prices. Never theless, the exports expansion would likely raise demand for raw materials and intermediate goods, 
prompting this year’s import value to rise further.  
Exports of services continued expanding in tandem with stronger performance of the tourism sector.  The 
projection for the number of foreign tourists in 2017 was revised up from 34.7 to 35.6 million due to several reasons: 
(1) increasing number of Chinese tourists —both group and independent tourists —thanks to the opening of new direct 
flight routes from  China to major tourist destinations in Thailand, (2) a rising number of ASEAN tourists that was in 
line with economic recovery, and (3) the reduction and exemption of tourist visa fees. Moreover, global economic 
recovery helped support a further rise in t ourism spending per head.          
Private consumption would expand at a gradual pace in the period ahead,  supported by improvements in farm 
income and employment in export -related manufacturing and services sectors as well as government measures such 
as the social welfare card project and the 9101 Project. However, household purchasing power would remain modest 
going forward because employment and wages had yet to fully benefit from the export recovery, partly due to 
economic structural changes and busines s models that were less reliant on labor, together with elevated level of 
household debt.       
Public spending remained an important growth driver.  Budget disbursement for both public consumption and 
investment was well on track despite some unexpected de lay in certain projects such as investment projects of state -
owned enterprises. Meanwhile, government investment was expected to slow down after prior acceleration, while 
some government agencies were constrained by limited disbursement efficiency. In addi tion, the promulgation of the 
Public Procurem ent and Supplies Management Act,  B.E. 2560 might result in a delayed disbursement, during the 
initial phase, of some state agencies that would now be governed by the new law, particularly local administrations 
that had not previously operated under this system.    
Private investment conti nued to recover albeit at a gradual pace.  In the near term, investment recovery was 
observed in various industries, consistent with an expansion in private consumption and exports. However, there 
remained excess production capacity in some businesses as th ey were also awaiting for greater clarity in the 
government’s stimulus policies especially those regarding some infrastructure investment projects.  
Headline inflation remained low due to supply -side factors but was expected to slowly rise.  In recent perio ds, 
headline inflation was lower than previously assessed attributed largely to supply -side factors, especially fresh food 
prices. Moreover, the lower fresh food prices also helped hold down the food component in core inflation at low level. 
Going forward,  inflation was expected to edge up slowly on the back of the gradual increase in demand -pull pressures 
given the improved growth outlook and higher cost -push pressures from an increase in excise tax, higher wages from 
the new regulations on immigrant worke rs, and the minimum wage rise next year. However, structural factors such as 
e-commerce and globalization trends, which intensified competitions among businesses, coupled with lower 
production costs driven by technological advancements, would likely cause inflation to rise at a gradual pace overall. 
The Committee therefore revised down its forecasts for headline inflation to 0.6 and 1.2 percent in 2017 and 
2018, respectively.  
Risks to growth became more balanced in the near term, albeit still tilted to the downside, while risks to 
inflation were judged to be balanced. Uncertainties surrounding the growth forecasts decreased given the better 
growth outlook of Thailand’s trading partners. However, there were possibilities that growth outturn might be lower 
than the baseline projection owing to uncertainties pertaining to U.S. foreign trade policy, China’s ongoing economic 
structural reforms, and geopolitical risks, all of which could have adverse impact on Thailand’s trading partners. On 
the domestic front, dow nside risks stemmed from household purchasing power that was not yet broad -based, the 
stringent regulations on immigrant workers that might affect economic activities, and a possible slowdown in public 
spending during an initial phase of Public Procurement  Act adoption. On the upside, there were possibilities that the 
Thai economy would achieve a higher growth than the baseline projection given a stronger -than-expected growth of 
the U.S. economy due to domestic stimulus measures. Unlike the balance of risks  to growth, the risks to inflation were 
projected to be in balance, with downside risks that inflation might fall below the baseline projection coming from a 
lower -than-projected economic growth and the impact of structural changes from technological advan cements and  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   3 intensifying business competitions. However, on the upside, inflation might be higher than baseline projection should 
regulations on immigrant workers result in a tightening labor market and wages increases.  
4. Monetary Policy Deliberation  
In the Monetary Policy Committee meetings on August 16 and September 27 2017  the Committee 
unanimously voted to maintain the policy interest rate at 1.50 percent. In deliberating their policy decision, 
the Committee assessed economic growth to continue to gain  further traction , driven mainly by external sectors 
with signs of greater positive spillovers across various sectors of the economy. Domestic demand started to improve; 
however, supporting factors to consumption were not yet robust. Meanwhile, headline in flation was projected to be 
below the lower bound of the target this year due to supply -side factors, especially the decline in fresh food prices and 
structural factors that were observed in many countries. However, inflation was projected to slowly rise i n tandem with 
economic growth and domestic demand recovery.  
Overall financial conditions remained accommodative and conducive to economic growth.  Short -term 
government bond yields declined mainly as a result of the reduction in short -term bond issuances by  both the Bank 
of Thailand and the Ministry of Finance and did not indicate future monetary policy stance. Meanwhile, the Thai baht 
appreciated somewhat against the U.S. dollar, but the baht’s movement was largely unchanged relative to those of 
trading par tners. Nevertheless, the baht experienced stronger appreciation compared with regional currencies in some 
periods due to Thailand’s external positions and other specific domestic factors. Going forward, the Committee viewed 
that the baht might experience h igh volatilities due to uncertainties from the external front. Therefore, the Committee 
would closely monitor developments in the foreign exchange market.  
Financial stability remained sound overall, but there remained pockets of risks that might lead to th e buildup 
of vulnerabilities in the period ahead.  These risks included deterioration in debt serviceability of households and 
SMEs stemming from elevated debt levels and structural problems that weighed on SMEs’ adjustments amid a 
changing environment in b usiness competitions. In addition, even though the situation regarding the rollover of the 
unrated corporate bonds improved, there were still pockets of risks that warranted monitoring including the debt 
serviceability of bonds that would mature in the per iod ahead and maturity mismatch in business financing structures, 
especially those in the real estate sector. In addition, the prolonged low interest rate environment not only could affect 
national savings but also could increase the search -for-yield behav ior, as reflected in a continued increase in 
investments in financial assets abroad that were concentrated in some countries as well as the search -for-yield 
behavior of saving cooperatives. Consequently, these might lead to widespread underpricing of risks . The Committee 
would thus continue to monitor developments of such risks; furthermore, the Committee viewed that developments of 
financial market infrastructure and collaboration among regulatory authorities would be crucial in enabling better 
information  access for risk assessment and preventing any exploitation of the regulatory gap. The Committee would 
stand ready to implement appropriate macroprudential measures in a timely manner.  
Monetary policy should remain accommodative to support the continuation  of economic growth and 
spillovers to domestic demand, which would help increase inflationary pressures in the period ahead.  The 
Committee assessed that Thailand’s economic growth continued to gain further traction on the back of both external 
and domestic  factors, though there remained risks to the external front that could affect export and tourism growth. 
Moreover, domestic demand that was not yet sufficiently strong, coupled with certain supply -side and structural 
factors, led to low inflationary pressu res. Meanwhile, financial conditions remained accommodative with sound 
financial stability. The Committee viewed that the degree of current monetary policy accommodation should be 
maintained to support further economic growth and spillovers to domestic dem and. These would facilitate the increase 
in inflationary pressures and the return of headline inflation to target, although this might take some time. The 
Committee would stand ready to utilize an appropriate mix of available policy tools to support econom ic growth while 
ensuring financial stability.   
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   4 1. The Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to gain further traction, driven mainly by expansion in 
consumption and a stronger labor market.  
The U.S. economy continued to expand  owing to private consumption thanks to 
improved economic fundamentals, stronger labor market conditions, and improved household 
financial positions and consumer confidence. Investment continued to gradually recover from 
private investment given strong bus iness sentiment. Meanwhile, Hurricanes Harvey and Irma 
would have a negative impact on the U.S. economy only for a short period of time. Besides, after 
the Congress approved a suspension of the debt ceiling for a three -month interval from  
September 8 to D ecember 8 2017, the government shutdown and debt default were less likely to 
occur. Euro area economies recorded stronger expansion, with growth broadening across 
most member countries . Accommodative financial conditions and improved consumer 
confidence and labor market conditions would support a consumption growth going forward. 
Japan continued to expand  on the back of stronger private consumption growth. The expansion 
was partly due t o base pay raises at the annual wage negotiations between management and 
unions, robust consumer confidence, and accommodative monetary policy stance. Moreover, 
export expanded in line with a global trade recovery.  
Looking ahead, the expansion of advanced  economies would still face risks from (1) 
uncertainties pertaining to U.S. economic policies on foreign trade, tax policy reform and 
infrastructure investment, and (2) negotiations on trade and other issues between the U.K. and 
the European Union after th e Brexit.  
Asian economies exhibited a stronger growth on the back of exports thanks to improvements  
in global demand and a gradual domestic demand recovery.  Meanwhile, the Chinese 
economy continued to gradually slow down following ongoing economic structu ral reforms.  
China’s growth in the second quarter of 2017 remained close to the previous 
quarter on account of continued expansion in investment and exports. Production and 
investment in the manufacturing sectors were underpinned by global demand recovery . 
Meanwhile, public investment growth slowed down somewhat, particularly for state -owned 
enterprises resulting from ongoing economic structural reforms. In the period ahead, China’s 
growth would continue to expand albeit at a gradual pace due to (1) the on -track progress of 
economic structural reforms and (2) financial stability measures. In particular, measures on the 
property sector implemented at the end of last year would gradually slow down investment on 
the property sector going forward. However, glob al demand recovery and the implementation of 
the One Belt One Road project would support production and export growth in the period ahead. 
Nonetheless, there remained risks to China’s financial stability that warranted close monitoring, 
especially those re garding high corporate debt levels and capital outflows, as these factors could 
weigh on China’s economic growth.  
Asian  economies  (excluding  Japan  and China)  continued  to expand  thanks  to 
exports  especially  of electronics  that benefited  from greater  external  demand  and the upward  
technology  cycle  (Chart  1.1). The expansion  of exports  started  to have positive  spillovers  to 
investment  in machinery  and equipment  and led to higher  employment  in manufacturing  sector  in  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   5 some  certain  countries.  In addition,  although  private  consumption  picked  up following  gradual  
improvements  in consumer  confidence  (Chart  1.2), it was not yet sufficiently  strong  owing  to 
elevated  household  debt.  Neverthe less, the Asian  economic  outlook  could  be weighed  down  by 
(1) China’s  growth  that was expected  to slow down  and its implications  on Asian  exports,  (2) 
elevated  household  debt in many  countries  that could  constrain  domestic  demand  recovery,  and 
(3) risks pertaining  to the U.S. foreign  trade  policies  as well as shifts  in global  trade  structure,  
whereby  advanced  economies  and China  could  rely more  on domestic  production  and relocate  
their production  sites to closer  regions.  Consequently,  these  could  undermine  the export  growth  
outlook—a main growth  driver  of the Asian  economies  in the period  ahead.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The growth prospect for Thailand’s trading partners was revised upward, but there remained 
risks that still warranted monitoring.  
Economic growth of Tha iland’s trading partners would likely to exhibit stronger  than 
expected in the previous Monetary Policy Report  (June 2017). This was partly attributable to the 
better -than-expected economic data outturns in the second quarter of 2017, improved private 
concumption in advanced economies, and continued Asian export growth. The Committee 
therefore revised up the growt h forecast for Thailand’s trading partners to 3.6% and 3.4% in 
2017 and 2018, respectively (Table 1.1).  
The Committee assessed that Thailand’s trading partners would still face risks that 
warrant ed monitoring  as the implementation of U.S. economic stimulus  would be less likely and 
geopolitical risks heightened following tensions in the Korean Peninsula. Nonetheless, some 
certain risks started to diminish. Such risks included concerns on China’s financial stability that 
were declined after the credit tighten ing was implemented and the Committee to ensure financial 
stability was established to support close collaboration  among regulators. Another risk was 
uncertainties surrounding the U.S. foreign trade policies that were reduced. This was because 
U.S. governm ent was more likely to settle on multilateral economic and legal agreements which 
might take some time.  
 
 
 
 
75100125
Jan
2015Jul
2015Jan
2016Jul
2016Jan
2017Jul
2017EU market (12%) Japanese Market (7%)
US market (13%) Chinese market (36%)
Asian market** (32%)Chart  1.1 Asian exports continued to increase in the second 
quarter.
Asia-6* exports value
Note : *Asia -6  includes  Hong Kong, Taiwan , S. Korea , Malaysia, Singapore , 
and Thailand.
**Asian market includes Hong Kong, Taiwan , S. Korea , Singapore , 
Philippines, Indonesia , and Thailand.
Source : CEIC and calculations by Bank of ThailandIndex, seasonally adjusted  (January 2015 = 100)
Chart 1.2 Asian consumer confidence continued to improve.
Source:  CEIC60708090100110120130
ID KR TW MY HK PHDiffusion Index (par=100)
Note: Philippines’ consumer confidence is scaled from par at 0 to 100Consumer confidence index 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most central banks maintained their accommodative monetary policy stances. However, 
some central banks raised their policy rates.  
Most central banks maintained their accommodative monetary policy stances, although 
a few central banks raised their policy rates such as the Bank of Canada. As for the Federal 
Reserve (Fed), the Fed was expected to commence its balance sheet reduction1/ in October 
2017 and gradually raise the federal funds rate given the economy would be approaching full -
employment amid the sluggish inflation outlook. However, central banks of some Asian 
economies with relatively high policy interest rates —namely, the St ate Bank of Vietnam, the 
Reserve Bank of India, and Bank Indonesia —cut their policy rates in the third quarter of this year.   
Capital flows were highly volatile as a result of increased uncertainties from the conduct of 
monetary policy in advanced economie s and geopolitical risks following the tensions in the 
Korean Peninsula.    
Toward the end of the second quarter of 2017, capital inflows to emerging markets (EMs) 
slowed down as the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of England (BOE) tended to 
be mo re optimistic about their economies. As a result, investors anticipated monetary policy 
tightening in these countries to be earlier than previously expected. In July, capital inflows to 
EMs increased after U.S. economic figures turned out to be weaker than  expected, especially 
inflation that still remained below the target. Moreover, some members of the Federal Open 
Market Committee reiterated their support for the gradual pace of policy rate normalization. 
Therefore, investors expected a lower likelihood o f the Fed’s rate hikes than previously 
anticipated and shifted their attention toward EMs assets especially into bond markets. Later at 
the end of August, capital outflows from EMs accelerated, particularly from equity market, due 
to heightened geopolitica l risks on tensions in the Korean Peninsula. Amid the risk -off sentiment, 
investors adjusted their portfolios by reducing investment in EMs and instead increasing 
                                                
1/ The Fed would gradually reduce the size of its balance sheet according to the previous ly announce d plan. The 
reinvestment caps would be 10 billion U.S. dollars per month  for the first three months and would increase in steps of 10 
billion U.S. dollars at three-month intervals over 12 months until it reaches 50 billion U.S. dollars per month.   After that, 
reinvestment caps would be kept at 50 billion U.S. dollars per month until the balance sheet reaches an o ptimal level.   
Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partners’ economic growth
Annual change (%YoY) Weight (%) 2016* 2017 2018
United States 14.9 1.6  .1  .1  .1   .1 
Euro area 10.0 1.7  .1  1.  1.6  1.  
Japan 13.6 1.01.5  1.  1.1  1.0 
China 1 . 6. 6.7  6.6 6.3  6.  
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 3 .4 3. 4.2  3.  3.   3.  
Total***  100 3.13.6  3.4 3.4  3.3 
Note: *Outturn
* Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to   trading partners in  014, namely 
Singapore (6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia (8%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), 
South Korea (2.8%), and the Philippines (3.7%)
** Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to major 13 trading partners as of  014 
(including the United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) reported in Monetary Policy Report June 2017 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   7 investment in low -risk assets. This was reflected by a surge in the Volatility Index (VIX)2/ and 
prices of safe -haven assets. In the beginning of September, however, investors’ concerns were 
declined and capital reversed to EMs, particularly in bond markets  (Chart  1.3).  
Looking ahead, financial markets would likely remain volatile. Fluctuations in capital flow 
movements, both into and out of Thailand, might result from uncertainties pertaining to U.S. 
economic policies, monetary policy directions of major advanced economi es, and geopolitical risks.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Dubai crude oil price in the third quarter of 2017 remained stable from the previous 
quarter, but would slowly rise underpinned by global economic recovery and production cuts 
by major oil producers.  
 The Dubai crude  oil price in the third quarter of 2017 remained  largely unchanged  
from  the previous  quarter . In July , oil prices dropped mainly due to supply -side factor s as 
reflected in  the large stock of  global crude oil. Crude oil output rose for  both groups of OPEC 
members : those under the agreement of production cuts and those exempt from the agreement , 
namely Libya and Nigeria. In August and September, however, oil prices gradually picked up 
after a sharp decline of oil stocks in the U.S. owing to more robust global  econom ic recovery 
and t he U.S. oi l rig count that appeared to be stabilizing after having risen significantly earlier.  
In the period ahead, oil prices would gradually trend up  mainly on account of global 
demand recovery and the extension to the p roductio n cuts agreement between OPEC and Non -
OPEC until  the first quarter  of 2018  which would steadily curb oil inventories . However, a 
continued expansion  in shale oil production  in the U.S. would restrain increases in oil  prices 
going forward . 
Against this back drop, the Committee kept the projection for the Dubai oil price 
unchanged at 50.9 and 52.8 dollars per barrel in 2017 and 2018, respectively . Risks to the 
projection remained balanced. On the upside, geopolitical risks in the Korean Peninsula and the 
Middl e East could help lift oil prices somewhat. Additionally, there were possibilities that the 
OPEC and non -OPEC countries might introduce new measures to stabilize prices and extend 
the cuts further. On the other hand, downside risks to the projection could stem from a higher -
than-expected supply from those under the production cuts agreement, shale oil producers in 
the U.S., as well as Libya and Nigeria.  
                                                
2/ The VIX index indicates volatility of stock markets, calculated by implied volatility from the S&P 500 options.  
681012141618
-4,000-2,00002,0004,0006,000
6-Jan-17
20-Jan-17
3-Feb-17
17-Feb-17
3-Mar-17
17-Mar-17
31-Mar-17
14-Apr-17
28-Apr-17
12-May-17
26-May-17
9-Jun-17
23-Jun-17
7-Jul-17
21-Jul-17
4-Aug-17
18-Aug-17
1-Sep-17
15-Sep-17Equity market Debt market VIX index (RHS)Conflicts in the 
Korean 
PeninsulaCapital inflows to EMs*  in2017 (weekly)
Note: *EMs includes Thailand, Indonesia, South Africa, and Turkey
Sources:  Bloomberg and  Institutional Institute of Finance Chart 1.3 Conflicts in the Korean Peninsula led to capital outflows 
from EMs especially from equity markets. However, after investors’ 
concerns subcided, capital flows reversed particularly into bond 
markets.
Million USD Index 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   8  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metal prices  in various types edged up in the short term such as iron ore, copper and 
aluminum, although both demand - and supply -side factors remained relatively unchanged. This 
was due to expectations on the outcome of the Chinese government’s policy to curb producti on 
in four major provinces and policy to curb price speculation. Looking ahead, metal prices in 2018 
would likely remain close to the previous assessment, despite greater downside risks from 
acceleration in China’s production after having fallen in earlier  periods.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
020406080100120140
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Higher bound              Lower bound        June 2017                  September 2017U.S. dollar/barrelChart 1.4 Dubai oil price was largely unchaged from the 
previous quarter but was expected to gradually increase in the 
future.
Assumption on Dubai oil price 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   9 2. The Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent Developments  
Thailand ’s economic growth in the second quarter of 2017 was stronger than the previous 
assessment in the Monetary Policy Report  (June 2017 ) underpinned by expansion in 
merchandise exports and tourism  and a continued recovery in domestic demand that began 
to be more broad -based . Meanwhile, public spending remained an important growth driver . 
The Tha i economy expanded 3 .7 percent in the second quarter of 2017  from the same 
period  last year, an improvement from 3.3 percent in the previous quarter . The key growth driver 
was an accelerated expansion of merchandise exports across almost all product categories and 
export destinations . In particular,  export s of rice and electronics  expanded in tandem with 
improved  external demand , the technolog ical upcycle , and an expansion of production bases in 
Thailand . Export s of services accelerated in line with tourism receipts . The number of foreign 
tourists increased for all nationalities , especially Chinese tourists . Notably , the benefits of 
merchandise and services export s began to spill over to  domestic demand . Private consumption 
continued to grow  in line with spending on services and durable goods and rising  consumer loan 
growth . Meanwhi le, the public  sector remained a key growth driver thanks to an accelerati on in  
public consumption  despite a contraction in public investment . Such decline was  partly owing to 
expedited  disbursements in the prior period on projects under  the Highway Department, the 
Rural Highway Departmen t, and the Irrigation Department . Some government agencies were 
also constrained by limited  disbursement efficienc y. However, p rivate investment growth 
resume d after having declined in the previous p eriod s, consistent  with an expansion  in 
machinery and equipment and construction . This helped offset the contraction in public 
investment and contributed to a slight increase in  overall investment growth . Overall,  the Thai 
economy recorded a 1 .3 percent growth , after seasonal adjustment,  in the second quarter of 
2017, close to the growth rate of the previous qua rter. 
Thailand ’s economic g rowth  continued to gain further traction  over the first two months 
of the third quarter . Merchandise exports expanded both in terms of volume and price . This 
development was in line with  regional export ing patterns and an economic recovery of 
Thailan d’s trading partners . Furthermore, a  rise in export value s was also evident across almost 
all product categories and export desti nations  with the benefits from the export expansion seen 
across firms of both large and small sizes . Consequently, rising employment in man ufacturing 
sectors of certain industries was observed , which would provide growth  momentum  for private 
consumption  going forward . Meanwhile, imports of machinery and equipment picked up in the 
manu facturing sector  with improved exports , resulting  in a higher  private investment in the same  
category . Services export s continued to expand  mainly on account  of tourism receipts . 
Nevertheless, an  expiration of  measure regarding  the reduction and exemption of tourist visa 
fees in August 2017 would yield limited impact on Chinese tourists . This was due to an 
increasing number of Chinese tourists in recent periods  both quality tourists  and free -
independent travelers (FIT), whose spending power was higher than that of group tourists . 
Meanwhile,  public spending expanded from both current and investment expenditure, 
particularly  investment spending  on state -owned enterprise  investment project s during  the initial 
phase of the Orange Line construction  (Thailand Cultural Center –Minburi ).   
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   10 Income improved for nonagricultural households in export -oriented  manufacturing and 
tourism sectors  but overall household purchasing power wa s not yet robust .  
Nonagricultural  households benefited from higher employment and overtime 
payments in export - and tourism -related businesses  such as food industr ies, rubber  products , 
electronics , retail business es, and  hotel s and restaurant s. Such improvement was observed in 
higher employment across  firms of all sizes, which helped lift purchasing power and provided a 
growth momentum for  private consumpti on. On the other hand, employment in domestic -
oriented  sectors such as beverage s, metal s and metal product s, and construction, was not 
evident . Therefore, employment outside the agricultural sector remained stable  overall . With 
regard to income, income distribution improved in  large and medium -sized businesses . 
However, the ongoing economic e xpansion in recent period s did not lend support to a better 
income distribution among workers in small businesses  (BOX: Distribution of growth dividends: 
evidence from  the labor marke t). Income of agricultur al households picked up  thanks to higher 
output of major crops such as rice and fruit s. However , farm income was expected to slow down 
in the period ahead  following a fall in agricultural prices that accompanied higher agricultural 
output . In addition, floods in some areas in the northeast would dampen agricultural households’ 
confidence which would  likely affect spending  to some extent .  
Regulations on immigrant workers might affect  private consumption and inflation going forward . 
The government  undertook measure s to manage and legalize immigrant workers in 
Thailand through the issuance of the Royal Decree on Managing the Work of Aliens  effective  
on June 23, 2017  where the reprieve period was extended to December  31, 2017  in order to 
allow time for business adjustments . Since then,  majority of illegal immigrant workers in the 
agric ultural and household sector  had duly  registered . Meanwhile,  immigrant workers in the 
manufacturing and service s sectors  of large businesses  were not much affected since most of 
them were legal workers . On the other hand,  the numbers of immigrant worker registrations in 
small and medium -sized enterprises (SMEs ) were still low . This was especially the case in hotels 
and restaurants, construction s, and trading businesses with a  larger proportion of  immigrant 
workers  employed relative to other sectors . Therefore,  these sectors could face risks of labor 
shortage  in the period ahead . In addition, r egistered illegal workers must undergo nationality 
verifications which could take some time . The Committee viewed that the impact on certain  
business es in risk sectors would  be quite considerable in  the short run , both on  employment 
and economic activities . In addition , the Committee would monitor the impa cts of these 
regulations  on domestic consumption following  potential  losses of purchasing power of 
immigrant workers , and the impact s on the inflation outlook given  a possible wage rise due to a 
tighte ning labor market,  as well as a  long-term impact  such that these regulations might also 
result in an increase in costs of hiring immigrant workers . 
Headline inflation edged up slightly due primarily to energy prices, while core inflation was 
stable relative to the previous quarter .  
Headline  inflation  edged up  slightly , averaging at 0.25 percent over the first two months 
of the thi rd quarter, an improvement from 0 .1 percent  in the previous quarter (Chart 2 .1). The 
increase was attributable to higher energy pric es caused by  (1) higher domestic retail oi l prices 
in line with global crude pri ces and (2) higher energy  charge s (FT). Meanwhile, a  decline in fresh 
food pri ces was less pronounced because  the base effects of higher fresh food prices following   
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   11 last year’s drought dissipated . However, t his year ’s weather conditions  that were favorable  for 
the output of vegetable and fruit s remained  a key factor behind a gradual rise in fresh food 
prices (Chart 2 .2). In addition, f ive-year-ahead inflation expectations of professional forecasters 
fell slightly  to 2.3 percent , which remain ed close to the midpoint of the target at 2 .5 percent .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Core inflation  was close to the rate of the previous quarter, averaging at 0 .47 percent 
over the first two months  of the third quarter . This was because prices of food items in  the core 
inflation basket were stable at low level s owing  mainly to lower cost s of fresh food and liquefied 
petroleum  gas (LPG) (Chart 2 .3). Prices of n onfood components in core inflation were also 
stable at low level s in tandem with a gradual do mestic demand recovery (Chart 2 .4). In addition, 
structural factors including the rising trends of e -commerce and globalization , which enhanced 
competitions among both local and foreign businesses, and an expansion of global value 
chain s, which enabled countries to gain easier access to cheaper raw materials, reduced the 
power of domestic firms in raising prices . Moreover, technological advancements also led to 
lower costs of production which partly put downward pressures on inflation and also weighed 
on an increase in  prices of nonfood component s in core inflation in the recent periods .  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Fresh food (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
JulAug
Note: ( ) denotes share in inflation baskets.
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.1 Headline inflation picked up slightly from the previous 
quarter mainly due to energy prices.
Inflation target (2.5  1.5%)Headline inflation and inflation target
0100200300400
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec1     000  000  00 
 00   010  010  01 
 016  01 MillimetreAverage rainfall in ThailandChart 2.2 Favorable weather conditions, as reflected in higher 
than historical average  rainfall, led to higher agricultural output 
and put downward pressures  on fresh food prices.
Floods in 
Southern 
provinces
Source: The Meteorological Department and the World Bank
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Non-alcoholic beverages
Seasoning and condiments
Prepared food
(Jul-Aug)PercentContribution to food -in-core inflation    .1 % Chart 2.3 Food -in-core inflation remained low due to 
low LPG and fresh food prices. 
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by the Bank of Thailand
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Housing and furnishing
Transport and communication
Medical and personal care
Recreation and reading
Apparel and footwear
Tobacco and alcoholic beveragesPercent
(Jul-Aug)Chart 2.4 Non food -in-core inflation  remained low given little 
expansion of goods and services prices which was in line with 
slow expansion of domestic demand.   
Contribution to non -food in core inflation    1. 3% 
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by the Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   12  
Government bond yields declined across all tenures . 
Short -term mone y market rates  remained close to the policy interest rate in the  third quarter 
of 2017 . However, short -term government bond yields  declined sharply in July (Chart 2 .5) as a 
result of the reduction i n the short-term bond issuances by the Bank of Thailand  since April . 3/ During 
the same period, there was also a suspension  of 28-day treasury bill issuances by the government at 
the end of the fiscal year 2017 and before the beginning of the next fiscal year .4/ Nevertheless, s hort-
term bond yields began to pick up  since August due to market adjustments  but were still lower than 
the polic y rate . Meanwhile, medium - and long -term government bond yields continued to fall sin ce 
July influenced by external factors . These included heightened political uncertaint ies in the U .S., which 
could result in a delayed  implementa tion of domestic stimulu s measures, and lower -than-expected 
U.S. economic d ata outturns  especially inflation that was still below target . Investors, therefore , 
expected the increase in the federal funds rate to be slower than previously assessed . Moreover, rising 
tensions in the Korean Peninsula since the  end of August also put pressures on yields  to decline  
further (Chart 2 .6). In September, bond yields  of all tenures  were below  levels at the end of the 
previous  quarter and at the end of 2016 . Corporate bond yields  declined alongside  decreases in 
government bond yield s and credit s pread s. Meanwhile,  financing costs through commercial 
banks , as r eflected in the new loan rate (NLR)5/, were stable at a low level after having declined 
continuously . (Chart 2 .7). 
 
 
 
  
 
 
                                                
3/ Since April 2017, the Bank of Tha iland reduced the issuances of 3-month and 6 -month bonds  from 40 billion to 30 billion 
baht for each type . 
4/ The government made adjustment to its treasury bill issuance plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017    
5/ NLR is calculated based on a weighted average of interest rates for new loan contracts extended by 14 Thai commercial 
banks (excluding cons umer loans and loans to financial intermediaries ). The data  covers loans of value of 20 million baht or 
higher for all purposes and terms,  and includes both secured and non -secured loans . Moreover, interest rates used in the 
calculation refer to the mid -rate between the lowest and the highest rates in each loan contract . 
Table 2.1 Inflation
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Jul-Aug
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) -0.50 0.30 0.26 0.69 1.25 0.10 0.25
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.67 0.79 0.76 0.73 0.66 0.47 0.47
Raw food 1.52 4.24 2.58 1.54 0.61 -2.97 -2.84
Energy -11.41 -8.95 -7.00 -1.06 6.69 2.67 4.02
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommerceAnnual percentage change2016 2017
1.001.251.501.75
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul% p.a.
policy rate  O/N Interbank
1 month Gov. bond 1 month BIBOR
 016  01 Chart 2.5 Short -term government bond yileds dropped signicantly in 
July but edged up slightly while other short -term rates were largely 
unchanged.
Short Term Rates
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.
2016Chart 2.6 Medium -and long -term government bond yields 
trended down owing to external factors. 
Government bond yields
2017
Sources: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   13  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private credit , particularly credit to households and large businesses in export -related and 
tourism sectors, continued to rise .  
Private credit6/ expanded 3 .4 percent from the same period last year in  the second quarter 
of 2017 (Chart 2 .8). Commercial bank loans increased mainly on account of working capital  loans 
to large corporates  in export -related sectors . In Augus t 2017 , private credit grew 3.4 percent from 
the same period last year on the back of household credit growth, particularly from an accelera tion 
of commercial bank lending  in almost all loan purposes  except credit card loans, w hich were 
largely unchanged . Auto loans continued to rise  as the car s bought under the first -car scheme 
reached the five-year contract period , so demand for new cars increased . Meanwhile, mortgage  
loans extended by specialized financial institutions  remained elevated . Business loan extension 
by commercial banks slowed down on account of debt repayments by large corporates . 
Nevertheless, working capital  loans to large corporates in export -related and touri sm sectors 
continued to expand, particularly in businesses related to rubber and plastic products, electronics, 
electrical appliances, food, and hotels .  
Funding through the bond market during July–August 2017 slowed relative to the 
previous quarter as matured bonds of some telecommunication s and energy companies were not 
replaced by new bond  issuances . However, funding activities increase d among businesses 
related to financial institutions , construction  material s, petrochemical and chemical  products 
(Chart 2 .9). Funding through the equity market  increased markedly  in businesses related to 
food, banking, petrochemical and chemical products . The increase in funding was mainly for 
financial restructuring and business expansion purposes . 
 
 
 
 
                                                
6/ Outstanding credit of other depositary corporations (ODCs ), namely commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, 
finance companies, saving cooperatives, and market mutual funds . 
 
Chart 2.7 New loan rate (NLR ) was stable at low level 
after trending down in the previous period.
New Loan Rate
02468
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan JulMLR NLR Policy rate% p.a.
 013  01  014  01  016
Source: Bank of Thailand
Chart 2.8  Growth in private credit increased mainly on 
account of household credit.
Growth of private credit
Percentage change from the same period last year
0246810
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulBusiness credit
Household credit
Total private credit
      
   
Source: Bank of ThailandNote: Private credit includes credit to other depositary corporations (ODC) namely commercial 
banks, specialized financial institutions, finance companies, saving cooperatives, and 
money market mutual funds
16.5**
2.65.8
0510152025303540
Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Outstanding of corporate bond
Business credit
Total financingChart  2   Growth in business financing outstanding 
through different channels*
Growth of business financing  
Percentage change from the same period last year
Note : *Business credit covers lending activities of Other Depository Corporations (ODCs) 
namely commercial banks, special financial institutions, saving cooperatives and money 
market mutual funds
**There was no rollovers of matured bonds of telecommunication and energy businesses 
in August, resulting in softer growth of the outstanding. 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   14  Going forward, fina ncial conditions were expected to remain accommoda tive 
as reflected  in the real policy rate which remained at a low level and was moderate 
compared with other countries (Chart 2 .10), together with  the Thai government bond yie lds 
that declined across all tenures as a result of  a reduction in short -term bond supplies and 
external factors . Meanwhile, c ommercial banks’ benchmark retail interest rates were stable 
at low levels . However,  it was expected that  financial institutions would still  maintain  caution 
in extendi ng credit to households and certain businesses, parti cularly SMEs with deteriorating  
credit quality .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The baht appreciate d against the U .S. dollar, but the overall  baht’s movement relative to 
those of trading partners was largely unchanged . 
In the third quarter of 2017, the baht strengthened  against the U .S. dollar  relative to 
the end of the previous quarter . The baht appreciation  was mainly due to  the weakening of the 
U.S. dollar , (Chart 2 .11) underpinned by negative market sentiments  on the U .S. dollar from 
heightened po litical uncertainties in the U .S. which could delay the implementation of domestic 
economi c stimulus measures  and lower -than-expected U.S. economic data outturns  especially 
inflatio n which was still below target . Markets , therefore , expected the increase in the federal 
funds rate to be slower than previously assessed . Furthermore, rising  geopolitical risks from 
tension s in the Korean Penin sula also put additional pressures on  the U .S. dollar . 
In this quarter, sizeable capital inflows into regional stock markets including Thailand 
were observed . However, the baht recorded  a stronger appreciation relative to  most regional  
currencies in some periods  especially in the latter half of July . This was on the back of a better -
than-expected Thailand ’s economic data outturns, particularly  a larger -than-projected  current 
account surp lus as reflected in persistent net sales of U.S. dollar by businesses . This was  partly 
caused by an increase in gold export s at the time of rising geopolitical risks. Moreover , there 
was also a large amount of overseas fundraising by  both Thai corporates and foreign affiliates . 
As of September 26, 2017 the baht clos ed at 33 .17 to the U .S. dollar,  appreciating  2.4 percent 
from the end of the previous quarter .  
The nominal effective exchange rate (NEER ) stood at 110 .65 on September 26, 2017 , 
appreciating  1.2 percent from the end of the previous quarter . Such appreciation  was driven by  
the baht ’s appreciation against the U .S. dollar and regional currencies, but was partially offset 
by the baht ’s depreciation  against the euro, poun d sterli ng, and yuan . This was due to  a euro-
area economic data outturns which reflected a stronger growth outlook and the People ’s Bank 
Chart 2.10 Thailand’s real policy rate  remained low 
and was moderate relative to other countries.
Real policy rates
-3.00-2.50-2.00-1.50-1.00-0.500.000.501.001.502.00
US EU JP UK NZ KR ID MY PH IN THPercent
Note:  *Calculated from  policy rate less 1 -year ahead inflation expectation 
surveyed by the Consensus Forecasts (as of 11 September 2017)
Source: Consensus Economics, calculations by Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   15 of China ’s revaluation of the yuan to be in line with better economic figures . As of the end of 
September 2017, t he real effect ive exchange rate (REER ) rose about 2 percent from the end 
of last year , but was less than the NEER ’s appreciation of roughly 3 percent . This was 
attributable to Thailand ’s relatively low inflation compared with  trading partners  which helped  
alleviate the impact of NEER ’s appreciation on price competitiveness  of businesses  to some 
extent . Moreover , Thailand ’s REER was moderate  compared with regional peers and did not 
change significantly (Chart 2 .12). Going forward,  exchange rates would likely re main volatile 
due to external uncertainties such a s uncertainties surrounding U .S. economic policies,   
monetary policy conducts of major  advanced  economies, and geopolitical risks . 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
Financial stability remained sound overall . However, there remained pockets of risks that 
warranted monitoring, particularly  debt servic eability of households and SMEs  as well as a 
search -for-yield behavior  that might lead to the buildup of  vulnerabilit ies in the financial 
system in the period ahead . 
Thailan d’s financial stability remained sound overall  with strong external position s as 
reflected in a high level of foreign exchange reserves and sustained current account surpluses 
which would provide cushion against volatilities  in global financial markets . Meanwhile, financial 
positions of  large corporates and financial institutions  provided a positive outlook , given that 
financial institutions maintained  high levels of capital buffers and provisions for loan losses to 
cushion against risks stemming from  deteriorating credit  quality . Nevertheless, the Committee 
assessed th at there remained  pockets of risks that could potentially lead to the buildup of  
vulnerabilities in th e financial system in the period ahead and thus warranted close monitoring . 
These risks are summarized as follows.  
(1) The continuation of the search -for-yield behavior in the prolonged  low interest 
rate environment . Although  overall systemic risk s were  largely limited, certain risks that 
indicated  signs of underpricing of risks  must be monitored . It was evident that i nvestment in 
assets that were riskier  than domestic deposits continue d to increase . This was  especiall y the 
case for foreign investment funds (FIF) which mainly invested  in deposit s and short -term debt 
securitie s in countries with investment -grade credit ratings, but there was still risk of investment 
concentration in some countries . Meanwhile, i nvestment in funds with deposit -like characteristics  
was stable relative  to the previ ous quarter . In addition,  investment in unrated bon ds trended 
down  following defaults of some issue rs at the end of 2016  as issuers of those defaulted bonds 
Chart 2.11 The baht strengthened against the U.S. dollar as the 
U.S. dollar weakened across the board. 
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 26 September 2017)USDTHB, NEER, DXY
Baht per U.S. dollar Index
2015 2016 2017USDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
DXY32
33
34
35
36
37 9095100105110115
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul
859095100105110115120
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan JulIndia
Indonesia
Taiwan
S. Korea
PhilippinesThailand
China
Singapore
Malaysia
2015 2016 2017 2014Appreciation
Chart 2 12  Thailand’s real effective exchange rate  appreciated 
rather moderately  in comparison to other regional economies.
Real effective exchange rate (REER) by country
Index  (2014=100)
Source: BIS, calculations by the Bank of Thailand (data as of September 201 ) 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   16 switched to borrowing from commercial banks . Meanwhile, investors were  more cautious , while 
risk assessment capability improved  as refle cted in higher funding  costs of issuers  with fragile  
financ ial positions . Similarly , asset management com panies exercised greater  caution when  
investing in unrated bonds . 
Furthermore, deposits at s aving 
cooperatives, both in the form of money 
deposits and  investment s in cooperative 
stocks , continued to expand . Given that 
deposit  rates  and average dividend s of 
saving cooperatives were higher than 
those of commercial bank s, some saving 
cooperatives accepted deposits from 
members in the amount exceeding  loan 
demand . Such situation might prompt 
saving cooperatives to seek higher yields, 
both in the form s of investment in risky 
assets or lending to high -risk borrowers, 
especially to certain cooper atives . However,  
investment in  equities of saving cooperatives began to slow somewhat (Chart 2 .13). The 
Committee would continue to closely monitor these developments as there appeared to be  
growing linkages between  saving cooperatives and financial system by way of  specialized 
financial institutions  and commercial ba nks. 
(2) Debt  serviceability of households and SMEs . Ability to service debt remained 
fragile as reflected in a high ratio of nonperforming loans (NPL) to overall consumer loans, 
despite some improvements in the second quarter of  2017 . However, share of NPLs in housing 
loans  continued to increase, which was partly a result of financial institutions’ competition s in 
credit extension  during 2015 –2016 following the government’s  real estate sti mulus measures . 
Moreover , interest rate s that remained lo w for an extended period might discourage savings , 
which could  affect national  saving s and increase households’ vulnerabilit ies to economic 
fluctuations . Meanwhile , debt serviceabili ty of the business sector , especially SMEs,  continued 
to deteriorate.  This was largely owing to specific problems in the industrial, commerc ial, and 
construction businesses that were  traditionally operated with limited capital.  Thus, these 
businesses faced constraints in adapting themselves to competition s and a rapid ly chan ging 
business  environment . Nevertheless, quality of some business  loans  improved thanks to export 
growth . Meanwhile, situation regarding the rollover of the unrated corporate bonds also 
improved . However, unrated bonds that would mature in the period ahead  still warranted 
monitoring, especially those  of issuers with fragile financial po sitions as well as some bonds with 
B-credit rating where defaults began  to emerge .  
(3) Over supply of condominiums in Bangkok and its vicinity . Altho ugh overall risk s 
were stable , there remained the need to monitor the situation regarding an increasing number of 
unsold units of condominium s in certain  areas and price ranges and a longer “time to go, ” 
especially for condominium units along the MRT Purple L ine (Chart 2 .14). Developments 
regarding the launches of large -scale mixed -used real estate projects must also be monitored , 
particularly some recently launched projects that were expected to be gradually completed and 
open for sale  from 2018 onward . Moreover, there remaine d risks that warranted monitoring 
9.3%7.21%45.8%
25.4%
20.7% 20.6%
5.4%3.9%0%10%20%30%40%50%
Dec
2011Dec
2012Dec
2013Dec
2014Dec
2015Dec
2016July
2017Assets
Equity instrument investments (1.6%*)
Debt instrument investments (13.2%*)
Loan to members (76.7%*)Chart 2.13 Investments in equity instruments of 
saving cooperatives slowed down.
%YoY
Note : *share to total assets  of saving cooperatives (as of  December 2016)  
Source : Cooperative Auditing Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandAsset growth and investment growth of saving cooperatives 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   17 regarding increasing risks of maturity mi smatch es between assets and liabilities  of some real 
estate developers amid growing excess supply in the condominium market .  
 
  
3742
2123
15
01020304050
2557H2 2558H1 2558H2 2559H1 2559H2 2560H1
Purple Line ( 2 - 3 Million Baht) Purple Line
Green Line Extension ( 1 - 2 Million Baht) Green Line Extension
Condominium in Bangkok and its vicinity
Note :  “Time to go” is the time taken for all real estate inventory to be sold, using average 
sales rate of the past 12 months.
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), calculations by Bank of ThailandMonthsChart 2.14 Condominiums in certain areas and price 
ranges saw longer “time to go”
Average “time to go” of condominiums along the mass transit system route 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   18  2.2 Outlook  for the Thai economy   
Under the Committee ’s assessment, Thailand ’s economic growth was projected 
to gain further traction in the period ahead and attain a higher growth rate of 3 .8 percent 
in both 2017 and 2018 , compared with the assessment in the p revious  Monetary Policy 
Report . The main drivers of growth were expected to be from both external and domestic 
factors . These included (1) improvements in merchandise exports and tourism in line with a 
stronger growth outlook of Thailand’s  trading partners , (2) a gradual rise in private spending that 
began to be  more broad -based , and (3)  a sustained fiscal  impetus despite unexpected delays 
in some public investment projects . Meanwhile, i nflation was projected to gradually edge  up 
overall  albeit at a slower pace than previously assessed du e mainly to supply -side factors . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary  of key forecast  assumptions  
 Trading partner economies were projected  to achieve higher growth rates than previously assessed 
as most growth outturns in the second quarter of 2017 were better than expected. In particular, 
Asian economies continued to grow  on the back of exports and private consumption.  
 The federal funds rate was expected  to be raised  one more time  over the remainder of 2017 , while  
it was also expected that the Fed would start reducing its balance sheet in accordance with the 
announced plan. In 2018 , the Fed would likely  raise the policy interest rate three  times.  
 Asian currencies (excluding the Chinese yuan) were  stronger  than the previous  assessment  given  
their appreciation in the third quarter of 2017. In the period ahead, however, the currencies were 
projected to depreciate following increases in the federal funds rate.   
 The Dubai  crude  oil price was projected to be the same as the forecast in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report  due to underlying  fundamental s that were largely unchanged .  
 Metal prices  were expected to increase in the short run due to a plan to cut metal production 
announced by the Chinese government. Going forward, metal prices were projected to remain close 
to the previous projection given that underlying fundamentals remained largely unchanged.  
 Farm  income  was revised  down  from the previous assessment due to lower agricultural  prices  
which  was a result of a higher -than-expected agricultural output , especially palm oil and fruits,  
thanks to  favorable  weather  conditions . Nevertheless, a higher agricultural output could only partially 
offset a fall in agricultural prices.  
 Public  spending  at current  prices was revised  down  due to unexpected delays in public investment 
especially from a lower -than-expected disbursement of investments by central government and a 
reduction in the budget of state-owned enterprises in 2018 . Meanwhile, public consumption was 
also revised  down  slightly due to delayed disbursement  of additional  budget  in 2017 , but was 
expected  to rise in 2018 in accordance  with a higher proportion of current spending in the 2018 
fiscal year budget.   
Table  2.2  Summary of forecasts 
Percent 2016* 2017 2018
GDP growth 3.2 3.8 (3.5) 3.8 (3.7) 
Headline inflation 0.2 0.6 (0.8) 1.2 (1.6)
Core inflation 0.7 0.6 (0.6) 0.9 (0.9)
Note: * Outturn
() Monetary Policy Report June 2017
Sources: NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimates 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   19   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merchandise exports were  projected  to continue  expanding  and become more broad -based .  
The value of merchandise exports was expected to exhibit higher growth than 
those reported in the previous Monetary Policy Report  and register 8 .0 and 3 .2 percent 
in 2017 and 2018, respectively . A stronger and continued expansion of the global economy 
and global trade contributed to a continued growth of  Thai merchandise exports across various 
product  categories  such as electronics, electrical appliances, automobile parts , and agricultural 
product s (Chart 2 .15). Growth was also expanded across almost all export destinations including 
developed markets, Asian countries , and the Middle East . Notably, Thai exports of electronics 
were expected to record further growth , especially integrated circuits which would be used as 
parts in Internet of Things (IoT) devices and electronic parts in automobile s. Exports of 
smartphones and motorcycles also benefited from the relocation of production bases to 
Thailand . Moreover, expo rt prices were projected to rise in tandem with  crude oil price s, especially 
for commodit ies, for example,  rubber and oil -related goods such as petroleum products . 
However, in the latter half of 2017 and throughout  2018 , the growth outlook of Thai 
exports was projected  to expand at  a slower pace , compared with  the first half of 2017.  
This was partly a result of high  base  effect in the previous year  from, for instance, the relocation 
of production bases of automobile  tires and hard-disk drives  to Thailand. Also, export  growth of 
particular  products  slowed down , including  rubber exports to China given an already high level 
of rubber stocks and rice exports after prior acceleration s in the previous period. Concurrently , 
there were also  structural  problems in certain  Thai industries that would take time to be resolved . 
In addition, global trade in 2018 was projected to slow down after having accelerated this year . 
Looking ahead , key risks to the Thai export outlook included uncertainties surrounding the U.S. 
foreign trade  policy , which could affect global econom ic growth outlook , and China’s potential 
economic slowdown as a result of ongoing economic structural reforms.  
 
 
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2016* 2017 2018
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 41.4 50.9 (50.9) 52.8 (52.8)
Metal prices (% YoY) -5.3 20.8 (18.6) -0.5 (0.5)
Farm income (% YoY) 1.6 6.3 (6.5) 4.3 (4.4)
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,456 2,566 (2,572) 2,710 (2,688)
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/936 987 (1,034)   1,123 ( 1,163)
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 0.63 1.38 (1.38) 2.13 (2.13)
Trading partners’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.1 3.6 (3.4) 3.4 (3.3)
Regional currencies (excl. China) vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar (index)3/ 154.8 156.3 (157.6) 156.4 (159.8)
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand total exports
                     3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
               * Outturns
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report June 2017Annual percentage change 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   20  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exports of services were projected to gain further traction .  
Export s of services were projected to expand further on account of continued 
improvements in the tourism sector  due to  several reasons : (1) an increasing  number of 
Chinese tourists —both group and  independent tourists with high purchasing power —thanks to  
the opening of new direct flight  route s from China to major tourist destinations in Thailand, (2) a 
rising  number of ASEAN tourists in line with regional economic recovery, and (3) the reduction 
and exemption of tourist visa fees  which yield benefit to increasing number s of foreign tourists . 
Although such measures already expired in August 2017, the impact on the overall number of 
tourists was relatively limited . Moreover, improvements i n the global economy would be a 
supporting factor for an increase  in the number of tourists from other countries and a further rise 
in touris m spending  per head . Thus, the Committee revised up the projection  for the number 
of foreign tourists to 35 .6 and 3 7.3 million in 2017 and 2018, respectively . 
Given improvements in the value of merchandise and service s exports , the projection 
for the value of merchandise and services imports  was revised up  with higher  imports of raw 
materials and intermediate goods . As a result, the current account would continue to  record 
large  surpluses  and would be higher than the previous estimates,  registering surplus es 
of 42 .4 and 38 .6 billion U .S. dollars  in 2017 and 2018, respectively .  
Private  consumption  was projected  to expand  at a gradual pace .  
Private consumption was projected to gradually expand in the period ahead,  
supported by improvements in  farm income  due to higher  agricultural  output . However,  falling  
agricultural prices would weigh  on confidence and spending  of agricultural  households. 
Meanwhile, employment picked  up in export -oriented  manufacturing  and tourism  sectors,  which 
helped shore up  confidence of households outside the agricultural sector regarding their future  
income . In addition,  private  consumption  benefited  from several  government  measures , 
including the social welfare card project to support low -income  individuals , the 9101  project7/ 
and flood relief  measures . Nonetheless, purchasing power would remain modest  in the period  
ahead  because  employment  and income  had yet to fully benefit  from the improved  exports, 
                                                
7/  The 9101 project is a project for sustainable agricultural development in honor of His Majesty the late King .  
Chart 2.15 Exports of goods exhibited a stronger recovery across 
many product categories, especially electronics
60708090100110120130140
Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17Electrical appliances (5.8) Vehicle parts (6.3)
Petroleum-related (10.6) Electronics ex. HDD (8.3)
Agricultural products (7.0)
Note: Number indicated in () denotes share to total exports in 2016
Source: Customs Department, calculation by Bank of Thailand.Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Value of exported goods 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   21 partly due to an increasing adoption of automation in place of human labor  as well as  economic 
structural changes and business models that were less reliant on labor . Moreover , despite 
decreasing somewhat , elevated household debt remained  a drag to consumption. Households 
would need some time to reduce their financial vulnerabilities  (BOX: Household  debt 
deleveraging and implications  for the economy ). 
The public sector continued to drive  the economy as budget disbursement was well on track  
despite some delay in certain investment projects .  
Public spending remained a n important economic growth driver , supported by 
budget disbursement that was well on track  despite some  unexpected delay in  certain projects . 
Most investment projects by state -owned enterprises (SOE) continued as planned , except for 
the Bangsue –Huamak and Bangsue –Hualampong missing links under the suburban train 
projects  that were still under consideration regarding construction plan in order to connect with  
the Airport Link  extension . Furthermore , the budget for SOE investment s in 2018 was  also 
reduced . With regard to public investment, growth  was expected to slow down after prior 
acceleration , while some government agencies were  constrained by limited disbursement 
efficiency . In addition , the promulgation of the Public  Procurement and Supplies Management 
Act, B.E. 25608/ might result in a  delay ed disbursement  during the initial phase  for the goods 
and services purchases and investments of some state agencies that would now be governed 
by the new law, particularly local administration s that had not previously operate d under this 
system . Meanwhile, central gover nment agencies were  already accustomed to such system .  
Private investment was projected to gradually  recover .  
 Private investment continued to  recover  albeit at a slower pace . In the near term, 
investment recovery was observed in more industries , consistent with  a stronger expansion of 
private consumption and ex ports. However, certain  businesses still slowed down their 
investment , as there remained excess production capacity , and were still awaiting for greater 
clarity in the  government ’s stimulus  policies especially those regard ing some infrastructure 
investment  project s. Nevertheless , government policies were expected to play a key role in 
supporting private investment in the period ahead,  both through a continuation of public 
investment and the future implementation of the Eastern Economic Corridor Act which  would 
help shore up business confidence and attract greater foreign investment .  
Inflation stabilized at a low level in the near term due to supply -side factors but w as expect ed 
to slowly  rise going forward .  
In the recent periods, inflation remained at a lower level than previously  assessed in the 
previous Monetary  Policy Report  due to a more pronounced  impact from supply -side factors. In 
particular, such decline was driven by a fall in fresh food prices as a result of higher agricultural 
output  of vegetable and fruits amid favorable  weather  conditions , together with  last year’s high 
base following the drought . Moreover, although external  sectors  were a key economic growth 
                                                
8/  The Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560 was an upgrade of  the Regulations of the Office 
of the Prime Minister on Procurement, B.E. 2535 and the Regulations of the Prim e Minister on Electronic 
Procurement , B.E. 2549 to be an Act . The Act enforces all state agencies to come under the same standards in 
order  to increase efficiency and transparency of procurement process.   
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   22 driver , domestic demand expand ed in a gradual manner . Consequently , domestic prices were not 
expected to accelerate markedly.   
Going forward, inflation was expected  to 
slowly edge  up as demand -pull pressures  
gradual ly rose in tandem with the improv ed 
growth outlook of the economy . This was 
reflected in the closing  of the  output gap in the 
first half of 2018 (Chart 2 .16). Moreover,  
upcoming government measures would further 
support household purchasing power . 
However, benefits from economic expansion 
were not yet widespread , while most 
businesses  continued to offer sales promotion . 
As a result, demand -pull inflationary pressures 
were expected to be limited . On the other hand, cost-push pressures  were expected to rise in 
accordance with an increase in excise tax on liquor, beer, tobacco , and sugary drinks  as well as  
rising wages due to regulation s on immigrant workers  and a minimum wage  rise in 2018 . 
Nonetheless, there remained pressures that would cause inflation to rise at a slower pace than 
previously assessed . These included  prices  of fresh food that were expected to remain low , 
structural changes such as e -commerce and globalization that intensified  competition s among 
businesses , and techno logical advancement s that helped reduce  costs of goods and services . The 
Committee, therefore, revised down the projection of headline inflation to 0 .6 and 1 .2 percent 
in 2017 and 2018, respectively , while maintaining  the projection of core inflation at 0.6 and 
0.9 percent in 2017 and 201 8, respectively .  
Risks to the growth forecast became  more balanced  in the near term, but remained skewed  
to the  downside . Meanwhile, risks to i nflation were judged to be  balanced .  
Under the Committee ’s assessment, the latest growth projection was 
characterized by  a smaller degree of uncertainties , while  risks to growth became more 
balanced over the remainder of 2017, albeit remaining  tilted to the downside  as displayed 
in the fan chart (Chart 2 .17). Uncertainties surrounding the growth forecast decreased due to a 
stronger growth outlook of Thailand ’s trading partners . On the downside , there were possibilities 
that growth outturns might be lower than  the baseline projection due to several reasons . First, 
the U .S. foreign trade polic ies might affect  global economic growth outlook and lead to a 
slowdown in Thailand ’s trading partners ’ economies . Second, China ’s ongoing economic 
structural reform s could decelerate growth of China  and its trading partners . Third, geopolitical 
risks might impact Thailand ’s trading partners ’ economies . In addition,  there were also domestic  
risks which included  (1) overall purchasing power  that remained modest  especially among low -
wage  earners whose income had yet to fully recover, (2) regulations on immigrant worke rs that 
could dampen economic activities more than previously anticipated, and (3) a possible 
slowdown in  public spending from a more -than-expected impact of the Public Procurement Act . 
On the upside, there were possibilities that growth could outperform the baseline projection  
given a stronger -than-expected growth of the U .S. economy on the back of domestic stimulus 
measures which would further enhance  growth of Thailand ’s trading partners . Nevertheless , the 
Committee assessed risks to both headline and c ore in flation forecasts to be in balance 
(Chart s 2.18 and 2 .19). On the downside , possibilities that inflation might fall below the baseline 
-4-2024
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Chart 2.16 Output Gap
% 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   23 projection were  from risks that grow th would be lower than previously assessed and  the impact 
of structural changes from technolog ical advancement s and intensifying business competition s. 
On the upside , inflation might  be higher than the baseline projection given that regulations on 
immigrant workers resulted in a tighten ing labor market and would in turn push labor costs higher 
than previously projected.  The extent to which labor cost s would r ise, however, would  depend 
on the implementation and management by the authorities in the period ahead .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-404812
-404812
              60   61   6 Chart 2.17 Growth forecast
%YoY
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1  
-4-202468
-4-202468
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q1 2018 Q1 2019                       (2.5 +1.5)Chart 2.18 Headline inflation forecast
%YoY
 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1  
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distributionTarget inflation (2.5 +1.5) 
-2-101234
-2-101234
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q1 2018Chart 2.19 Core inflation forecast
%YoY
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1  
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   24  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2016* 2017 2018
GDP growth 3.2 3.8 (3.5) 3.8 (3.7)
Domestic demand 2.7 3.0 (3.0) 3.5 (3.4)
     Private consumption 3.1 3.3 (3.1) 3.0 (3.1)
     Private investment 0.4 2.3 (1.7) 3.0 (3.6)
     Government consumption 1.7 2.1 (2.2) 2.7 (1.9)
     Public investment 9.9 5.0 (7.7) 9.8 (9.2)
Exports of goods and services 2.1 5.9 (4.6) 3.3 (2.7)
imports of goods and services -1.4 6.5 (4.8) 3.3 (2.6)
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 47.7 42.4 (39.7) 38.6 (32.7)
Value of merchandise exports 0.1 8.0 (5.0) 3.2 (1.7)
Value of merchandise imports -5.1 14.0 (10.9) 6.3 (5.4)
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 32.6 35.6 (34.9) 37.3 (37.3)
Note: *Outturns
             ( ) Monetary Policy Report June 2017Annual percentage change 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   25   
Distribution of growth dividends: evidence from the labor market  
The Thai economy continued to expand on the back of a stronger global expansion 
and started to have positive spillovers to the labor market. While overall nonagricultural 
employment9/ remained stable during the first seven months of this year, there was higher 
employment in some certain businesses that benefited from exports and tourism sectors —
namely, transportation, hotel and restaurant, processed food, and rubber and plastic (Chart 1). 
In addition,  these improved employment situation started to be increasingly observed in 
large and small businesses , having witnessed earlier this year in medium -sized enterprises 
(Chart 2).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                
9/  Nonagricultural employment refers to workers of private businesses in nonagricultural sectors, excluding workers 
of government entities.  Note: 1/ Business growth and employment growth were the comparison between the average over Janauary–July  
2016 and the average over January–July 2017.  
          2/  Business growth was calculated from the manufacturing production index (for manufacturing sectors),  
sales derived from VAT (for service sectors), and the construction index (for the construction sector).  
          3/  The bubble size represents that sector’s share of employment in the overall manufacturing sector  
employment (for manufacturing sectors) or in the overall service sector employment (for service sectors).  
          4/  Green bubbles represent the sectors that b enefited from exports and tourism.  
Sources: The National Statistical Office, the Office of Industrial Economics, the Revenue Department, and the Bank  
                of Thailand; calculations by the Bank of Thailand  Chart  1 Employment in businesses  that benefited from growth in  export s and tourism 
increased.  
Nonagricultural  business growth and employment growth1/ 
Food
Beverage
TextilesApparels Rubber&Plastic 
excluding tyresBasic metalElectronic s
HDD
Electrical applianceVehicleAutomobile part
ConstructionTradeTransportationHotelRestaurant
-10%-5%0%5%10%15%
-15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15%
Employment growth (horizontal axis )Business growth /(vertical axis) 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   26   
 
 
 
 
 In addition to the positive spillovers from overall economic growth to employment, this 
article examines whether and to what extent the re cent economic growth was broad -based by 
considering (1) income distribution of nonagricultural workers based on Gini coefficients by 
sectors, and (2) nonagricultural employment by income groups. The findings are summarized 
as follows.  
  (1) The income distribution of 
nonagricultural workers overall did not 
yet improve, especially for small 
enterprises, but started to show signs of 
improvement among medium -sized and 
large businesses.  This was reflected by the 
Gini10/ coefficient of nonagricultural workers 
that remained stable during the first half of 
the year (Chart 3). However, when classified 
by firm size, income distribution of 
nonagricultural  workers in medium -sized and 
large businesses was seen to have 
improved, while income distribution in small 
businesses slightly worsened (Chart 4). 
Based on this finding, income distribution of 
workers in small businesses had yet to 
benefit from the recent economic growth.   
                                                
10/ The Gini coefficient reflects income distribution and ranges from zero to one. A smaller Gini coefficient means 
a low -income group holds a larger share of a country’s total income. As a result, there is less income inequality 
as well as a better income di stribution.  
 8090100110120130
Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Small businesses (51%)
Medium businesses (16%)
Large businesses (33%)
TotalChart 2 Employment in medium -sized businesses  
increased since the beginning of the year, whereas 
employment  in large and small businesses increased 
later 
Nonagricultural employment, classified by firm size  
Index, seasonally adjusted  (3 months moving average ) 
(Jan 2014 = 100)  
 Chart 3 Income distribution of nonagricultural workers 
overall remained  stable  
 
Gini coefficient  
Note: ( ) denotes share in total employment  
Source: The National Statistical Office, calculations by the Bank  
              of Thailand  Note: The Gini coefficient approaching 0 represents an  
          improvement in income distribution .  
Source: The National Statistical Office, calculations by the Bank  
             of Thailand  
 0.500.550.600.65
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
 Index  
Chart 4  Income distribution of workers in large and 
medium -sized  businesses  improved whereas  in small 
businesses deteriorated . 
Gini coefficient, classified by firm size  
0.500.550.600.65
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Small businesses (51%)
Medium businesses (16%)
Large businesses (33%)Index
Note: ( ) denotes  share in total employment  
Source: The National Statistical Office, calculations by the Bank  
             of Thailand  
  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   27   
 
(2) Nonagricultural employment in a middle -incom e group (10,000 –30,000 baht 
per month) increased, while employment in high - and low -income groups  remained 
mostly unchanged or moderated (Chart 5). Therefore, the decline in the Gini coefficient of 
large and medium -sized businesses as shown above could be due to higher employment in 
the middle -income group. Meanwhile, employment in the high -income group declined 
somewhat after having risen in earlier periods. Overall income distribution, however, did not 
improve much because employment in the low -income gro up had yet to recover. Moreover, 
impacts on economic growth of employment in the high -income group that was expected to 
decline warranted monitoring going forward.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In sum, evidence from the labor market shows that economic growth was not yet 
sufficiently strong and overall income distribution had yet to improve . On the one hand, 
empl oyment increased in businesses that benefited from exports and tourism and started to 
be more broad -based as seen in various business sizes. Income distribution of workers in 
large and medium -sized businesses started to show some improvements. On the other  hand, 
employment in the low income group and income distribution among workers in small 
enterprises had yet to edge up . Therefore, such developments in the labor market warranted 
close monitoring in order to ensure that the gains from economic growth coul d be distributed 
to various stakeholders in terms of both quantity and quality.  
 
 
 
 
 80100120140
Jan
2014Jul
2014Jan
2015Jul
2015Jan
2016Jul
2016Jan
2017Jul
2017Low-income group (less than 10,000 baht)
Middle income group (10,000-20,000 baht)
Upper middle income group (20,000-30,000 baht)
High-income group (more than 30,000 baht)
Chart 5 Nonagricultural employment  in middle  and upper -middle income 
group s increased  whereas employment  in the low-income group had not 
yet recover . 
Nonagricultural  employ ment, classified by income  group  
Note: ( ) denotes  the monthly income  of worker  group  
Source: The National Statistical Office , calculation s by the Bank of Thailand  
Index, seasonally adjusted  (3 months moving 
average )  
(Jan 2014 = 100)   
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   28   Household debt deleveraging and implications for the economy  
Household debt received considerable attention from the public because the ratio of 
household debt to GDP  accelerated significantly  since 2011 . The reasons included the first -time car 
buyer scheme, the great flood during 2011 –2012, and a surge  in agricultural prices due to both global 
price cycles and government subsidies which raised farmers’ income expectat ions. As debt 
accumulation outpaced income growth, debt serviceability of households  continued on its downward 
trajectory as reflected in  higher NPL ratios . Nevertheless, household debt growth had leveled off and 
continued to slow down, thereby resulting i n a fall in  the debt -to-GDP ratio for six consecutive 
quarters since early 2016 . This situation was  referred to as “debt deleveraging,” that is, a reduction  
in debt relative to income .11/ 
Debt deleveraging by Thai households  
When household debt accumulation 
relative to income accelerates to certain levels,   
households’  leverage will likely be limited as they 
are constrained by ability to service debt . 
Households, therefore,  have  to adjust their 
financial positions which marks the beginning of 
debt deleveraging . However, such situation can  
take place in various forms . One of the cases  is 
through debt reduction,  which usually occurs 
following an economic crisis originating from asset 
price bubbles in the real estate sector or other 
financial stabil ity issues . As a result, this leads to 
a pronounced  decline in credit extension and an 
extreme debt deleveraging . Another case  is when 
loan growth is outpaced by income growth12/. This 
is generally the case when the economy is  
growing at a slower pace  than normal, leading to 
a relatively moderate debt deleveraging .   
In Thailand,  deleveraging  slowly took 
place since the beginning of 2016, with loan 
growth increasing more slowly than that of 
income . The latest data in the second quarter of 
2017 revealed  that the ratio of household debt to 
GDP fell to 78 .4 percent (Chart 1 )13/. However, 
deleveraging remained concentrated in certain  
income groups . According to the Household  
  
 
                                                
11/  Many analysts use the debt -to-GDP ratio in place of the debt -to-income ratio because GDP data are  comparable 
across countries and available in advance of household disposable income data . However, the use of GDP instead 
of household disposable income might  not reflect households ’ financial adjustments, especially when the ratio of 
household disposable income to GDP changes  significantly .  
12/  Deleveraging occurs  whenever loan growth is outpaced by income growth —regardless of whether l oan growth is  
faster, stable, or slower than in the past .  
13/  The ratio of household debt to GDP does not include debt under litigation and credit under the Student Loan Fund . 
If included, the ratio would  be higher and the increase would be a parallel shi ft. Therefore, a deleveraging trend 
could  still be observed .  
Household debt to GDP
Percentage to GDP
Source: Bank of Thailand81.2
78.4
7072747678808284
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
 014  01  016  01 Chart 1 Household debt* to GDP was declining since 
the beginning of 2016
*Notes: Household debt does not include debt under litigation and credits under the
Student Loan Fund
020406080100120140160180200
2007 Q1 2009 Q1 2011 Q1 2013 Q1 2015 Q1 2017 Q1Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintile 4 Quintile 5
Quintile 1 = Lowest -income households
Quintile  5 = Highest -income households
Source: Socio -Economic Survey, National Statistical Office; 
calculations by Bank of ThailandIndex of Household Debt to Income  classified by Income   Median  
Index  (Q1/2007  = 100)Chart 2 Signs of deleveraging were seen in high -income 
households (Quintile 4). 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   29  Socio -economic Survey14/ (Chart 2), deleveraging  was evident among some high -income 
households  (fourth quintile in Chart 2 ). This was primarily due to a decrease in debt while income 
was broadly unchanged . Meanwhile, low -income households continued to leverage further since 
2015 owing to debt acceleration while income was largely unchange d or increased slightly . In 
addition, according to data reported to the Bank of Thailand by financial institutions, deleveraging 
was particularly apparent  in auto loans given the end of loan contract terms under the first -time car 
buyer  scheme . Housing  and business loans  exhibited  a relatively slow deleveraging pace because 
such loans still continued to expand .  
Implications of deleveraging for the economy  
Household debt accumulation  for 
consumption  was equivalent to borrowing 
future income for today’s co nsumption, 
which would affect consumption at a later 
date (Table 1 ). During the  leveraging 
period, consumption growth would outpace  
income  growth, leading to lower household  
savings . This behavior could not indeed 
last forever as households would be  
unable  to additionally leverage while also 
servicing existing debts . Thus, households must adjust  themselves by lowering consumption and 
saving more in order to pay back their debt . Therefore, during the deleveraging period, consumption 
would grow at a slower pa ce than income15/. However, a gradual deleveraging process following a  
debt acceleration  would  yield benefit in the long run because households’ adjustment would alleviate 
financial vulnerabilities  and strengthen their balance sheets . As a result, risks to financial stability  
would reduce and consumption  would once again become  an important economic growth driver .  
In the case of Thailand, the ratio of 
household savings to income was on  a 
downward trend in tandem with debt 
accumulation  (Chart 3 ). During 2008 –2015, 
household consumption grew by  5 percent, 
a higher rate than household income growth 
of 4.7 percent . However, since 2017,  as 
households began to deleverage, saving 
rates  were  expected to increase and thus  
consumption would likely grow at a slower 
pace than income . Nevertheless, during the 
deleveraging period, an appropriate level of 
monetary policy accommodation would play 
an important part in facilitating households ’ adjustments,  reducing  debt burden by  lowering financing 
costs and suppor ting an increase in household income . It would also improve efficiency in household 
debt restructuring  which would lead to  an orderly deleveraging, facilitating household consumption 
to resume its role in supporting stronger economic growth going forward .  
                                                
14/ This quarterly data were collected by the National Statistical Office based on a sample size of 10,000 households . 
In Charts 2 and 3, data were  from 2007Q1 to 2016Q1 . Income data were  available every other year .  
15/ During deleveraging in some case, savings did not increase and consumption growth was  still higher than income 
growth . This was  because income accelerated sufficiently fast to allow debt servicing and consuming at the same 
time. However, such a situation is hardly likely because a large positive productivity shock is  required in this case . 
It is more common that  savings would likely rise during deleveraging .  
8.7
7891011
 00  010  011  01  013  014  01 
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development BoardPercentageRate of Household Savings to Disposable IncomeChart 3: The ratio of household savings to income 
trended down during the leveraging period.
VariablesLeveraging
PeriodDeleveraging
Period
Debt to Income Increase   Decrease  
Saving Rate Decrease   Increase  
ConsumptionIncrease faster 
than incomeIncrease slower 
than incomeTable 1 Pattern of Savings and Consumption in 
Different Periods 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   30 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
Thailand ’s economic growth improved further driven by external demand, together with a 
continued recovery in domestic demand that began to be more broad -based . However, 
supporting factors to domestic demand were not yet robust . An accommodative monetary 
policy stance was thus still warranted . 
The Committee assessed that Thailand ’s growth outlook continued to improve driven 
primarily by a better -than-expected growth in merchandise exports and tourism underpinned by 
a stronger gl obal economic recovery . The positive effects from the external front were started to 
be observed in some related sectors with signs of improvements in credit utilization and credit 
quality of large businesses as well as employment in export -related and tou rism businesses . 
Meanwhile, private consumption was expected to gradually expand given that purchasing power 
was not yet robust, particularly of low -income households. Private investment in machinery and 
equipment improved across various businesses, partly  attributable to improved economic and 
investment sentiments . Moreover, public expenditure still remained a growth driver but would 
likely slow down somewhat due to prior accelerated disbursement in the previous period and 
some government agencies that wer e constrained by limited disbursement efficiency .       
Nevertheless, while the Thai economy exhibited a stronger growth outlook on the back 
of both external and domestic factors with greater positive spillovers across various sectors of 
the economy, the e xpansion was not yet sufficiently strong. This was reflected in employment 
of low -income workers that did not yet broadly recover and a decline in credit quality of SMEs . 
In addition, export growth still faced significant risks from the external front whic h included 
uncertainties surrounding U .S. economic and foreign trade policies, concerns on China ’s 
financial stability, and heightened geopolitical risks which could undermine private sector 
confidence and financial conditions. Thus, the Committee viewed t hat accommodative monetary 
policy stance was still necessary to support economic growth to continue and strengthen . The 
Committee would continue to monitor the positive spillovers from increasing economic activities 
to other sectors of the economy in order  to formulate appropriate monetary policy in the period 
ahead .   
Headline Inflation was expected to slowly rise albeit at a slower pace than previously 
assessed  due to supply -side and structural factors . Hence, further monetary policy 
accommodation would yield a limited impact  in boosting inflation .  
Headline inflation would trend up slowly in tandem with economic growth; at the same 
time, last year ’s high base effects following the drought gradually dissipated. However, the 
Committee projected that the av erage annual headline inflation might be lower than the 
assessment in the previous  Monetary Policy Report . This was owing to a larger -than-expected 
decline in fresh food prices as a result of a higher output of vegetable and fruits amid favorable 
weather c onditions . Meanwhile, core inflation which reflected demand -pull inflationary pressures 
remained stable at a low level .   
The Committee viewed that headline inflation that was below the lower bound of the 
target in recent periods was caused by supply -side factors, particularly lower fresh food prices 
that were in line with prices of vegetable and fruits on account of higher output amid favorable  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   31 weather conditions . These led the food components in core inflation such as prepared food to 
stabilize at a low l evel (Chart 2 .1 2.2 and 2 .3 in Chapter 2 ). Moreover, low headline inflation was 
also attributable to structural factors which included the intensified competition following 
globalization and e -commerce such that both domestic and foreign firms continued to  increase 
sales promotion as well as technological advancements that led to lower costs of production 
and services . This situation, where headline inflation was lower than target because of structural 
factors, was also observed in many countries . Against t his backdrop, the impact of further 
monetary policy accommodation in boosting headline inflation would be limited . Nevertheless, 
the current level of monetary policy accommodation should be maintained to support domestic 
demand growth which would consequen tly facilitate a rise in inflation, although this might take 
some time . Looking ahead, uncertainties surrounding the inflation outlook could stem from the 
impact of regulations on immigrant workers, which might cause wages to rise as a result of a 
tighteni ng labor market, and an increase in excise tax. These factors could somewhat put 
upward pressures on inflation . The Committee would thus continue to closely monitor inflation 
developments and continue to communicate with public to anchor the public ’s infla tion 
expectations within the target band going forward . 
Financial conditions remained accommodative as reflected in a new loan rate (NLR) 
which remained  stable at a low level after having declined in the previous period . Meanwhile, 
the baht appreciated against the U .S. dollar in line with most regional currencies . 
The Committee assessed overall financial conditions to be accommodative and 
conducive to economic growth, as reflected in high liquidity in the financial system  and the low 
real policy rate. Business financing increased through both credit and capital markets. With 
regard to the bond markets, short -term government bond yields were below the policy rate in 
recent periods, due to the reduction in short -term bond is suances by the Bank of Thailand and 
the government, and did not indicate future monetary policy stance. Nevertheless, short -term 
yields later picked up somewhat due to portfolio adjustments by some investors and 
expectations that the government would resum e issuing treasury bills at the beginning of the 
next fiscal year.  
Nevertheless, overall business financing costs through commercial banks were 
accommodative as reflected in the new loan rate (NLR) that remained stable at a low level after 
trending down i n the previous period (Chart 2.7 in Chapter 2). Meanwhile, credit lines of 
businesses were not fully utilized especially those of large businesses, reflecting demand for 
business credits that only increased moderately. In addition, there were still problem s mostly 
regarding access to credits faced by SMEs which necessitated the use of other measures in 
solving this problem other than monetary policy.  
With regard to exchange rates, the baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar relative to 
the previous quarte r in line with most regional currencies due to (1) the weakening of the U.S. 
dollar from uncertainties pertaining to U.S. politics and stimulus economic policies and weaker -
than-expected U.S. economic data outturns, (2) a higher -than-expected Thailand’s cu rrent 
account surplus, and (3) capital inflows to Thailand through overseas fundraising by Thai 
corporates and foreign affiliates as well as portfolio investment in the Thai stock market. Thus, 
the baht recorded a stronger appreciation relative to regional  peers in some periods. 
Nevertheless, the pace of the baht appreciation slowed down somewhat at the end of the third 
quarter. The Committee viewed that the baht’s movement relative to those of trading partners  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   32 was mostly unchanged. As of the end of Septemb er 2017, although the baht recorded a net 
appreciation of 8 percent from the end of 2016, the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) only 
strengthened by 2 percent and was ranked in the middle among regional peers (Chart 2.12 in 
Chapter 2). Looking ahead, exc hange rates might experience high volatilities due to 
uncertainties on the external front, such as uncertainties pertaining to U.S. economic policies 
and monetary policy conducts of major advanced economies. The Committee would thus 
continue to closely mon itor developments in the foreign exchange markets.  
Financial stability remained sound overall but there remained pockets of risks that might 
pose vulnerabilities to financial stability under a prolonged low interest rate environment.  
The Committee viewed  that overall financial stability remained sound and able to provide 
cushion against volatilities in global and domestic financial markets. Nevertheless, there 
remained pockets of risks that might pose vulnerabilities to financial stability that warranted 
monitoring going forward. These included  a rising search -for-yield behavior in a prolonged 
low interest rate environment which might result in underpricing of risks . The Committee would 
continue to monitor developments of important risks, such as the conti nued expansion in foreign 
investment funds (FIFs) that was concentrated only in some countries, although risks were 
limited as these funds invested in countries with investment -grade credit ratings, as well as a 
search -for-yield behavior of saving cooperat ives following an expansion in members’ deposits. 
Another risk was the  deterioration of debt serviceability of households and SMEs stemming 
from elevated debt levels and changes in structural factors and business models that might 
weigh on SMEs’ adjustment s amid a changing environment in business competitions. 
Meanwhile, the situation regarding the rollover of unrated corporate bonds improved, but there 
were still risks that warranted monitoring including debt serviceability of bonds that would mature 
in the period ahead, especially those of issuers with fragile financial positions. Risk could also 
stem from the  situation regarding an  oversupply of condominiums in Bangkok and its 
vicinity . Although overall risks were stable, a situation regarding an increasi ng number of unsold 
units of condominiums in certain areas and price ranges and a longer “time to go” must be 
monitored. The Committee underlined the importance of developments in financial market 
infrastructure and collaboration among regulatory authoriti es in order to enable better 
information access for risk assessment and prevent any exploitation of the regulatory gap which 
might pose systematic risks. The Committee would stand ready to implement appropriate 
macroprudential measures in a timely manner.    
The Committee concurred that monetary policy should remain accommodative to support 
the continuation of economic growth, which would in part facilitate the increase in the 
inflationary pressures in the period ahead.  
The Committee voted unanimously to ke ep the policy interest rate at 1.5 percent at the 
meetings on August 16 and September   . Thailand’s economic growth outlook continued to 
improve on the back of both domestic and external factors with greater positive spillovers across 
various sectors of t he economy. Inflationary pressures, while remaining low due to supply -side 
and structural factors, were expected to gradually rise in tandem with an economic recovery in 
the period ahead. However, domestic demand expansion was not yet strong and the econom y 
still faced external risks that might hamper export and tourism growth. Nevertheless, financial 
conditions that remained accommodative for extended period might exacerbate risks to financial 
stability. Thus, certain risks must be monitored, including imp acts of the prolonged low interest  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   33 rate environment on national savings as well as a buildup of financial system vulnerabilities from 
the search -for-yield behavior which might lead to a widespread underpricing of risks. Therefore, 
the Committee viewed that  the current degree of monetary policy accommodation should be 
maintained so that the economic growth could continue and strengthen, which would facilitate 
the return of headline inflation to target in the period ahead. The Committee would stand ready 
to utilize an appropriate mix of available tools to support the economic growth while also 
preserving price and financial stability.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   34 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
2017
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
2.9 3.23.6 3.2 3.0 3.3 3.7
Production
-5.7 0.6 -0.4 0.9 3.0 5.7 15.8
3.9 3.5 3.9 3.2 3.2 3.1 2.7
Manufacturing 1.5 1.4 2.2 1.6 2.2 1.3 1.0
Construction 17.0 8.3 9.9 5.2 6.1 2.8 -6.2
Wholesales and retail trade 3.9 5.0 4.7 5.2 5.6 5.9 6.0
Hotels and restaurants 14.6 10.3 10.8 13.5 4.9 5.3 7.5
Transport, storage, and communication 5.1 5.6 4.2 6.5 5.2 5.4 8.6
Financial intermediation 8.8 6.1 6.2 5.8 6.7 4.6 5.1
Real estate, renting, and business activities 1.9 1.8 2.1 1.1 1.9 4.0 4.1
Domestic demand 2.9 2.7 3.5 0.9 2.2 2.3 2.3
Private consumption 2.2 3.1 4.0 3.0 2.5 3.2 3.0
Private investment -2.2 0.4 0.3 -0.8 -0.4 -1.1 3.2
Government consumption 3.0 1.7 2.4 -5.2 1.8 0.3 2.7
Public investment 29.3 9.9 12.8 5.8 8.6 9.7 -7.0
Imports of goods and services 0.0 -1.4 -2.5 -1.1 3.4 6.1 8.2
imports of goods 0.2 -2.1 -2.8 -1.5 3.6 7.3 9.1
imports of services -1.0 1.7 -1.3 0.5 2.0 1.1 4.0
Exports of goods and services 0.7 2.1 1.0 1.4 1.1 2.7 6.0
exports of goods -3.4 0.0 -1.9 -0.4 1.4 2.6 5.2
exports of services 17.1 9.3 11.6 7.7 0.4 3.2 8.8
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars) 26.8 36.5 8.5 9.2 7.1 8.8 6.4
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 32.1 48.2 9.0 11.7 10.8 15.0 7.4
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars) -16.8 -21.0 -1.3 -7.8 -12.1 -7.0 -4.1
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars) 156.5 171.9 178.7 180.5 171.9 180.9 185.6
Unemployment rate (%) 1.0 1.0 1.1 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.2
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%) n.a. n.a. 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of Thailand2016
ExpenditurePercent 2015 2016
GDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agriculture 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   35  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Jul Aug
1. Financial market sector
1.1 0.6 0.6 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,288.0 1,542.9 1,483.2 1,542.9 1,575.1 1,574.7 1,576.1 1,616.2
Actual volatility of SET index1/13.9 15.2 13.6 15.2 7.0 4.8 3.7 7.3
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 22.6 18.6 21.3 18.6 17.4 16.3 16.4 17.2
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/5.1 4.4 3.8 5.0 3.5 3.9 3.1 3.2
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 108.5 106.2 105.8 107.0 108.7 109.8 110.9 111.4
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 104.4 100.6 100.4 101.1 102.1 102.7 103.6 n.a.
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR )4/6.50 6.26 6.26 6.26 6.26 6.20 6.20 6.20
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.40 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 17.4 18.0 18.5 18.0 17.8 17.9 n.a. n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 192.3 199.2 49.8 47.4 51.2 49.0 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 97.0 96.3 96.9 96.3 95.7 96.5 n.a. n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 81.2 79.9 80.0 79.9 78.7 78.4 n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.6 2.8 2.57 2.8 2.7 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 2.4 2.9 2.8 2.9 3.2 3.1 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 2.3 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.6 1.7 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 4.0 3.7 5.1 3.7 4.1 3.4 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.6 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 7.4 8.3 8.2 7.7 8.5 7.5 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 5.7 6.6 5.8 6.8 6.2 6.3 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.7 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.7 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.6 1.5 1.9 1.4 1.6 1.8 n.a. n.a.
SMEs 3.5 4.3 4.0 4.3 4.5 4.4 n.a. n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 4 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisions2017
Bond market
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Indicators 2015 20162016 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   36  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Jul Aug
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 59,667     61,452     14,149     16205 12244 15,086     4,733      5,724      
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 13,152     13,409     3,216      3179 2802 3,544      1,073      1,236      
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 19,210     20,187     4,718      4967 4315 4,947      1,638      1,914      
 Condominiums 27,305     27,856     6,215      8059 5127 6,595      2,022      2,574      
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 107,988   110,575   31,017     31,452     25,304     25,529     6,375      12,302     
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 17,637     19,433     6,328      4,973      2,054      2,413      881          1,423      
Townhouses and commercial buildings 27,518     32,792     10,638     7,861      10,413     7,102      1,254      4,763      
Condominiums 62,833     58,350     14,051     18,618     12,837     16,014     4,240      6,116      
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 129.3 128.8 131.3 128.8 128.6 129.6 130.6 130.9
Townhouses (including land) 137.5 135.6 136.8 135.6 138.3 140.0 141.0 141.4
Condominiums 160.9 173.6 169.2 173.6 169.8 168.8 168.6 168.4
Land 168.8 171.3 170.2 171.3 171.3 164.2 167.0 169.0
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%) 44.4 42.2 42.8 42.2 42.2 41.8 41.8 41.9
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%)6/8.1 11.7 10.9 9.7 14.1 7.7 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)7/32.0 32.7 34.8 32.7 33.5 34.3 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 131.1 132.2 140.6 132.2 136.2 140.5 142.9 146.5
Short-term (%) 40.1 41.2 41.0 41.2 40.5 39.5 39.5 39.7
Long-term (%) 59.9 58.8 59.0 58.8 59.5 60.5 60.5 60.3
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 3.0 3.2 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.4 3.4
Note:
6/ Current account / Nominal GDP at the same quarter
7/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDPIndicators 2015 20162016 2017 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   37  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
2017 2018
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
10-12 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
8-10 0 0 1 2 2 3 4 5
6-8 2 9 10 10 12 12 13 13
4-6 37 39 32 27 26 25 24 23
2-4 51 38 35 31 29 28 26 25
0-2 9 12 18 20 19 20 19 18
(-2)-0 0 1 4 8 8 9 10 10
< (-2) 0 0 1 2 3 4 4 5
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
2017 2018
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 2 2 2 3 4
2.0-2.5 0 0 2 6 7 6 7 9
1.5-2.0 0 5 10 15 15 13 14 15
1.0-1.5 5 23 24 23 22 20 20 20
0.5-1.0 44 41 31 24 23 23 21 20
0.0-0.5 45 26 21 17 17 19 17 15
(-1)-0.0 5 6 8 8 9 11 10 9
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 2 3 3 5 4 4
< -2 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
2017 2018
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
> 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
6-7 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1
5-6 0 0 0 2 2 2 2 2
4-5 0 0 1 5 5 5 4 5
3-4 0 1 4 11 11 10 9 10
2-3 1 7 12 18 18 16 16 16
1-2 17 24 23 22 21 20 20 20
0-1 50 36 27 19 19 20 19 19
(-1)-(0) 28 24 20 13 13 14 15 14
(-2)-(-1) 3 7 9 6 6 8 9 8
(-3)-(-2) 0 1 3 2 2 3 4 4
(-4)-(-3) 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1
< (-4) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2019
Percent2019
Percent2019 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   38 4.2 Chartpack  
The Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to expand further  driven by expansion in consumption and 
stronger labor markets. China continued expanding on the back of investment in the first half of 
the year, but was projected to slightly slow down as economic structural reforms began to bear 
results. Meanwhile, Asia n exports steadily improved in line with global demand and the technology 
cycle of electronics.   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45505560
 014  01  016  01 Euro area Japan U.S.Diffusion index
Source: BloombergManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
China’s economic indicators
(Change from the same period last year)
Source: CEIC0102030
 013  014  01  016  01 Retail sales Manufacturing
Total investment Investment in manufacturing (32%)
Investment in real estate (23%) Investment in structure (9%)
Percent
Note: ( ) denotes share to total investment
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
 013  014  01  016  01 Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
Philippines ThailandAsian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
 010 011 01  013 014 01  016 01 United States Euro Area Japan China Asia*PercentInflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note: *Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, 
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source : CEIC 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   39 The Thai Economy  
Thailand’s economic growth gained further traction in the second quarter of  01 , underpinned 
by exports and tourism with signs of greater positive spillovers to domestic consumption and 
investment. Meanwhile, the number of foreign tourists continued to steadily increase. Public 
spending remained an important growth driver but would likely slow down due to prior 
accelerat ed disbursement in the previous period and some government agencies that were 
constrained by disbursement efficiency.  
 
   
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-10-5051015
Q1
2015Q3 Q1
2016Q3 Q1
2017Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/  
Note: 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM )
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board, Percent
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price and quantity
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2013 = 100)
859095100105
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulValue Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand
Public spending by central government
6090120150180
Oct Jan Apr JulFY2015 FY2016 FY2017Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulBillion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy Office
050100150200250300
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulAsia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaIndex of foreign tourists classified by nationality  
(3-month moving average, sessionally adjusted; January 2014 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of Tourism 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   40 Inflation  
Headline inflation slightly edged up mainly due to energy prices. Core inflation remained stable  
at a low level in line with a gradual expansion of domestic demand. Meanwhile, five -year-ahead 
inflation expectations by professional forecasters dropped slig htly, but remained close to the 
midpoint of the inflation target.  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflation
Jul  Aug  
    Contribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Jul  Aug  
    
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of May 2017 , while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.Underlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2012Jul Jan
2013Jul Jan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Core inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.01, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.02, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.00, 0.11)
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
with bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/ 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   41 Financial conditions  
Medium - to long -term government bond yields declined due to external factors. Total corporate 
financing continued to increase mainly through equity and bond markets. The Thai baht 
appreciated against the U.S. dollar, while the baht’s movement relative to t hose of trading 
partners was largely unchanged.  
    
  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total corporate financing by instruments*
Source: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Billion baht
Note: *Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bond excluding commercial banks, and 
newly issued equities.-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2016Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan
2017Mar May JulCredit Bond Equity
-2%-1%0%1%2%3%4%
INR
PHP
IDR
JPY
TWD
KRW
SGD
MYR
CNY
THB
AUD
EUR
GBP
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 26 Sep 2017 )Percent
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollarCurrency movements vis -a-vis the U.S. dollar
(26 Sep 2017 compared to 30 June 17)
32
33
34
35
36
37 9095100105110115
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr JulUSDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 26 September 2017 )DXYBaht per U.S. dollar IndexThai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), Nominal Effective 
Exchange Rate (NEER), and Dollar Index (DXY)
2015 2016 2017
Thai government bond yields
Source: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)2016 20171.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a. 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   42 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-equity (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand stayed close to the historical 
average. The P/E ratio of the Market for Alternative  Investment (mai) registered a new record 
high due to losses in agricultural and financial sectors in the second quarter. Meanwhile, 
issuances of unrated bonds steadily declined since the end of 2016 after some defaults. Unrated 
bonds still constituted a s mall portion in the total corporate bonds outstanding.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: the household sector  
The ratio of household debt to GDP continued to trend down. Deleveraging was observed in 
some high -income groups and more evidently for automobile loans. However, deteriorating 
household debt serviceability warranted close monitoring.  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand (as of 26 Sep, 2017)Current Price to earning ratio and turnover ratio  of SET 
and mai
020406080100120
020406080100
Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17SET turnover ratio mai turnover ratio
SET P/E ratio (RHS) mai P/E ratio (RHS)Percent     
Average P/E of mai (2012 -2016)
Average P/E of SET ( 2012 -2016 )
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans ( NPLs) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
Percent
2.73.1
1.73.4
0123456
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
 011  01  013  014  01  016 01 Consumer (Total) Home Car Credit card Personal
2.6
505560657075808590
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
 01  013  014  01  016 01 Percent of GDP2/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
Source: Bank of Thailand78.4Household debt1/
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Corporate bonds outstanding
9 91966117127 128 
89
81
020406080100120140
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,000
 011
 01 
 013
 014
 01 
 016
2017/Q
1
2017/Q
2
2017/Se
p 26A group
B group
Non-investment grade
Unrated
Number of companies issuing unrated bond  (RHS)
Billion baht
3.3%
1.4%
0.6%
0.4%
1.4%Number of companies issuing unrated bonds
4.6% 4.0%3.2%*2.6%*
Note:    Percent of unrated bonds in total corporate bonds 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   43 Stability: the corporate sector  
Overall stability of the corporate sector remained sound. However, several corporate sector 
indicators showed that overall economic growth was not broad -based, as reflected by 
deterioration in income prospects, profitability , and debt serviceability of small businesses.  
     
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand7.5
6.5
456789
Q1 
2014Q2 
2014Q3 
2014Q4 
2014Q1 
2015Q2 
2015Q3 
2015Q4 
2015Q1 
2016Q2 
2016Q3 
2016Q4 
2016Q1 
2017Q2 
2017Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Percent
Note: *Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.Operating Profit Margin (OPM) and Return on Assets (ROA)*
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)3.1
1.84.4
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Total corporate loan large corporate loan SME loan
Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
Q2
2.3
2.12.5
0123
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Q2
Interest Coverage Ratio, classified by sectors 
Time
Note: * production exclude Petroleum and chemicals
Source : Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand-5.0-3.0-1.01.03.05.07.09.011.0
Q1/2015
Q3/2015
Q1/2016
Q3/2016
Q1/2017
Q2/2015
Q4/2015
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q3/2015
Q1/2016
Q3/2016
Q1/2017
Q2/2015
Q4/2015
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q3/2015
Q1/2016
Q3/2016
Q1/2017
Q2/2015
Q4/2015
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q3/2015
Q1/2016
Q3/2016
Q1/2017
Commerce Production
(exc.petro)Construction Real Estate Utilities Services OverallP25 P50 Trend
-10-8-6-4-2024
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Smallest (Quintile 1) Small (Quintile 2)
Medium (Quintile 3) Large (Quintile 4)
Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandInterest coverage ratio TimeDebt serviceability at 25th percentile of each group of 
firm size 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   44 Stability: the real estate sector  
The real estate sector overall improved. Demand for condominiums and low -rise residences in 
Bangkok and its vicinity increased from the previous quarter. On the supply side, developers 
continued to launch new residential projects, especially condominiums. Residential property 
prices remained broadly stable.  
 
   
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10.311.1 11.2
10.5
6.66.48.08.58.08.58.810.6
024681012
020406080100120
Low-rise Condominium TotalNew residential projects launched in Bangkok and its vicinity
Thousand units Thousand unitsYearly Monthly (RHS)
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), 
calculation by Bank of Thailand
130.9141.1168.4
169.0
100110120130140150160170180190
2013Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2014Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2015Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2016Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2017Q1
2017Q2
Jul-17
Aug-17Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate price indices
Index ( 2009 =100)
Source: Bank of Thailand
Condominium inventory in Bangkok and its vicinity and ‘Time to go’
Thousand units Months
Note: ‘Time to go’ is the time taken for all real estate inventory to be sold, 
using the average sales rate of the past 12 months.
Source: AREA and calculations by Bank of Thailand76
15
020406080
020406080
2007
200 
200 
2010
2011
2012
201 
201 
201 
201 
20…Condominium inventory Time to go (RHS)
34 
28 32.461 55
0246810
020406080100
 014
 01 
 016
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Low-rise Condominium TotalResidential units in Bangkok and its vicinity with 
approved mortgages by commercial banks
Thousand units
Source: Bank of ThailandThousand units, 3-month moving average 
and seasonally adjusted
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Average* 5,422
Note: *Average during 2010 -2016 , excluding periods with 
government’s stimulus measures  November 2015 -April 2016 ) 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   45 Stability: financial institutions  
Credit growth rose in the second quarter primarily due to loans to large corporates. Meanwhile, 
loans to households remained stable. The quality of corporate loan deteriorated somewhat due 
to certain large businesses, while the quality of household loans i mproved. Nonetheless, the 
financial system remained sound with high levels of provisions and capital buffers.  
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Credit growth in the commercial bank system
13.93.9
13.2
0.6
10.32.8 3.314.3
2.3 3.215.7
4.5 4.4
-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumer7.0
2.0%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand
Non-performing loan (NPL)
2.652.94 2.95
1.94
1.591.813.984.48 4.42
2.07 2.82 2.66
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Total NPL (%) Large corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%)%
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
16.317.817.9
11.8 15.1 15.2
4.5
2.62.7
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of Thailand
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
323544
150.4161.8 160.7
100120140160180
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
20170102030405060
Loan loss provisions (RHS) Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report September 2017   46 Stability: external position  
Thailand’s external stability remained strong due to a lower level of external debt than an 
international benchmark and international reserves were at a high level relative to short -term 
debt.  
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: the fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP stayed below the sustainability 
threshold.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandReserve to short -term debt
012345
 00 
 006
 00 
 00 
 00 
 010
 011
 01 
 013
 014
 01 
 016
2017Q1
2017Q2
 Jul 17
 Aug 17Aug2017 = 3.4Time
External
4.9%
Domestic
95.1%Outstanding debt as of August 2017
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from 
remaining duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
10.4%
Long -term 
89.6%
40.142.243.4 43.9 43.542.3 42.2 41.2 42.2 41.8 41.8 41.9
0102030405060
 01 
 013
 014
 01 
Q1-16
Q2-16
Q3-16
Q4-16
Q1-17
Q2-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Other government agencies  FIDF
Financial state-owned enterprises Non-financial state-owned enterprises
Advance borrowing for debt restructuring FIDF compensation
Public government’s direct borrowing Public debt to GDPPercent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability (60%)Public debt to GDP
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
020406080100120140160
0102030405060
 00 
 010
 011
 01 
 013
 014
 01 
2016Q1
2016Q2
2016Q3
2016Q4
2017Q1
2017Q2Long-term debt
Short-term debt
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48%Billion U.S. dollar Percent 
