 
Monetary Policy Report  December  2017  
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
December  2017 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Porametee Vimolsiri  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Kanit Sangsubhan  Member  
Mr. Subhak Siwaraksa  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  December  2017  
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 7. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardi zing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reasons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance  of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report December  2017  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  4 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions on trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Commodity prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ..............................  9 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ..........................  9 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ........  18 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
BOX : Crowding in of private investment by public investment  
3. Monetary Policy  Decision  ................................ ................................ .................  28 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  31 
4.1 Table s ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  31 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Data  Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  36 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   Monetary Policy Report December  2017  1 Executive Summary  
Monetary Policy Conduct in the Fourth Quarter of 2017  
Overall economic growth gained further traction in the fourth quarter of 2017 driven mainly by the external sectors, 
but the underlying strength of domestic demand and household purchasing power, headline inflation that remained 
below target, and pockets o f risks to financial stability still warranted monitoring. Against this backdrop, the 
Committee had to weigh between sustaining economic growth in order to attain the objective of price 
stability and preserving financial stability in formulating the most a ppropriate course of policy action. The 
Committee also assessed the benefits and costs of different policy options and unanimously voted to 
keep the policy rate unchanged at 1.50 percent at the meetings on November 8 and December 20, 2017.  
In deliberating their decisions, the Committee judged that accommodative monetary policy stance would still be 
necessary to support the continuation of economic growth. The current policy interest rate remained appropriate 
in that it would facilitate sufficiently accommod ative financial conditions to support economic growth and foster the 
return of headline inflation to target expected during the first half of 2018.  
Looking ahead, the Committee deemed that monetary policy accommodation should be maintained for 
some time t o support more robust economic growth and foster the gradual return of headline inflation 
toward the medium -term target.  The Committee would closely monitor inflation developments and assess 
structural factors affecting inflation dynamics. The Committee wo uld stand ready to utilize available policy tools to 
facilitate the return of headline inflation to target in an appropriate time, while seeking to achieve sustainable growth 
and maintaining financial stability. The Committee also deemed it necessary to de velop a process to monitor and 
assess financial stability risks that could be systematically incorporated in the conduct of monetary policy.  
Monetary Policy Target in 2018  
The Committee and the Minister of Finance concurred that headline inflation of 2.5 ± 1.5 percent should be the 
target for the medium term and for 2018. The Cabinet approved the proposed target on December 19, 2017, as 
this level of inflation would facilitate economic growth to be in line with potential as well as maintain the country’s 
competitiveness. In addition, the tolerance band should be appropriate to provide cushion against shocks that 
might cause inflation to deviate from target in the short term.  
Assessment s of the Economic, I nflation , and Financial Stability Conditions and Outlooks as the Basis  
for Policy Formulation  
1. Global E conomy  
The global economy was projected to continue expanding and remain a driver of Thai exports in the 
period ahead.  Advanced economies expanded further mainly due to consumption and stronger labor markets. 
Moreover, the U.S. tax policy reform, signed into law toward the end of December 2017, would help stimulate the 
U.S. economy going forward. The euro area recorded st ronger expansion on the back of consumption and exports. 
In addition, accommodative financial conditions, improved consumer confidence, and a recovery in the labor 
market would help support consumption spending going forward. Japan continued to expand on a ccount of exports 
and manufacturing, with consumption expected to increase following improved consumer confidence and labor 
market conditions. Meanwhile, the Chinese economy was expected to gain further traction despite some slowdown 
because of financial s tability measures implemented by the authorities. However, improving global demand and 
the government’s additional financial measures to support specific groups would facilitate economic growth going 
forward. Other Asian economies were expected to grow fol lowing improvements in exports which would underpin 
employment and household consumption in the period ahead. The Committee therefore revised up the growth 
forecast for Thailand’s trading partners to 3.8 percent in 2017.  However, there remained certain ris ks that 
warranted monitoring in 2018. These included uncertainties surrounding U.S. economic policies such as trade and 
infrastructure policies as well as geopolitical risks that could undermine the economy and financial markets.  
Most central banks mainta ined accommodative monetary policy stance. Nonetheless, some central banks 
raised their policy rates  such as the Federal Reserve (Fed), the Bank of England, and the Bank of Korea. The 
Fed commenced its balance sheet reduction as previously announced and th e European Central Bank announced 
a reduction of monthly bond purchases. Moreover, a number of central banks in Asia started to signal changes in Monetary Policy Report December  2017  2 their monetary policy direction, as improved economic growth and a gradual rise in inflation facilitated monet ary 
policy normalization the period ahead.   
2. Financial Conditions and Financial S tability   
Financial conditions remained accommodative. Short -term bond yields remained below the policy rate due to 
a decreased supply of short -term bonds. Meanwhile, long -term bond yields edged up on the back of an increase 
in the long -term bond supply, together with external factors following the progress of the U.S. tax policy reform 
which could lead to budget deficits. Consequently, U.S. government bond yields were expect ed to rise and could 
lead to higher Thai government bond yields. Meanwhile, interest rates on new loans (NLR) remained stable at a 
low level after trending downward earlier. Overall private credit expanded driven mainly by household loans 
especially mortga ge and auto leasing loans. Corporate loan growth, on the other hand, slowed down especially in 
the manufacturing and trade sectors in part due to debt repayments of large corporates. However, SME loan 
growth started to pick up in several sectors and workin g capital loans to export -oriented businesses continued to 
expand. Regarding the exchange rates, the baht remained largely unchanged. The real effective exchange rate 
(REER) appreciated somewhat consistent with improvements in economic fundamentals and was  broadly in line 
with REERs of other countries.   
Financial stability remained sound but there remained pockets of risks that warranted monitoring.  These 
included, first, debt serviceability of SMEs and low -income households as the positive spillovers from the economic 
expansion did not yet broaden out, as reflected in deterioration in credit quality. Second, the search -for-yield 
behavior that could lead to underpricing of risks needed to be monitored, for example, a continued expansion in 
foreign investment funds (FIF) that were concentrated in some countries as well as increased investments in riskier 
assets of some saving cooperatives. Third, there  was an oversupply of property developments in some areas, 
such as condominium units along the MRT Purple Line which have a longer time to go, as well as developments 
regarding the launches of mixed -use real estate projects that would raise supply in the n ext 4-5 years.  
3. Economic and inflation outlook  
The Thai economy was projected to continue expanding and achieve 3.9 percent growth in 2017  and 
2018 , higher than previously forecasted in the previous quarter. The upward revision was on account of a 
continued improvement in merchandise exports and tourism, underpinned by growth of trading partners’ 
economies. Private spending gradually expanded and began to be more broad -based. Fiscal impetus also 
supported growth.  
Merchandise exports continued to expand ac ross various product categories and almost all export 
destinations.  The value of merchandise exports in 2017  was revised up to grow by 9.3 percent in tandem 
with economic expansion of trading partners. Such improvement was particularly observed among exports 
of electronics, auto parts, and processed agricultural products, thanks to global demand for electrical 
products and the relocation of production bases to Thailand of some products such as smart phones. 
Moreover, export prices, especially for commodities, increased in line with oil prices. Meanwhile, import value 
also rose following an increased demand for raw materials and intermediate g oods as well as higher oil 
prices. However, the exports expansion in 2018  was likely to slow down somewhat due to prior acceleration, 
together with specific factors such as the rise in exports following the relocation of production bases of some 
products t o Thailand observed this year . However, the monthly average value of merchandise exports was 
still expected to reach a record high in many years.  
Exports of services in 2017  was slightly lower than expected for non -tourism receipts, while tourism 
remained  strong.  The projection of the number of foreign tourists was revised up to 35.6 million in 2017  and 
37.3  million in 2018  due to several reasons: ( 1) the increasing number of Chinese tourists, both group and 
independent tourists, due to new direct flight ro utes, ( 2) the rising number of ASEAN tourists which was in 
line with regional economic growth, and ( 3) a rise in tourism spending per head thanks to global economic 
expansion and higher -spending tourists.  
Private consumption would gradually expand in the p eriod ahead , supported by several factors: ( 1 ) 
improvements in farm income from the previous year due to higher output, ( 2) improved earnings of workers, 
especially those in the high -income group, in export -related manufacturing and tourism sectors, ( 3) maturing 
debts from the first -car scheme, and ( 4 ) government measures such as the social welfare card project. 
However, the labor market had yet to fully benefit from the economic recovery, partly due to structural Monetary Policy Report December  2017  3 changes with increasing adoption of automat ion especially  in some industries with strong exports. Other 
factors included migration of labor from the manufacturing sector to the service sector, where productivity 
and wages were lower, and elevated household debt, particularly of low -income household s, for which 
deleveraging could take some time. Private spending would thus remain modest and might not be sufficiently 
broad -based going forward.  
Public spending remained an important economic driver.  Both public consumption and investment 
expenditure continued to expand despite some unexpected delays in some investment projects, constrained 
by limited disbursement efficiency and heavy rain which affected construction. Investment projects of state -
owne d enterprises (SOEs) were mostly on track, although some projects were delayed. Nevertheless, an 
increase in overall investment budget for 2018  and the holdover of some SOEs investment plans from 2017  
would contribute to higher public investment in 2018. However, the promulgation of the Public Procurement 
and Supplies Management Act B.E. 2560  might result in a delayed disbursement during the initial phase of 
some state agencies that were not accustomed to the new system such as local administrative organiza tions.  
Private investment continued to recover but was projected to expand at a modest pace. Investment 
recovery was observed in various industries, which was consistent with expansion in private consumption 
and exports. However, there remained excess production capacity in some businesses. Nevertheless, 
infrastructure investment projects and the enactment of the Eastern Economic Corridor Act would be 
supporting factors for private investment going forward.   
Headline inflation remained low due to supply -side factors but was expected to slowly rise.   In recent 
periods, headline inflation was at a l ow level close to the previous estimate. This was as a result of supply -
side factors, namely an increase in output due to favorable weather condition. Going forward, inflation would 
edge up slowly on the back of a gradual rise in demand -pull pressures, giv en the improved growth outlook 
together with the impact from an increase in excise tax. However, inflation might be held down by several 
factors, such as fresh food prices that would likely remain low thanks to technological advancements and 
increasing pri ce competition. The Committee therefore projected headline inflation to be at 0.7 and 1.1 
percent in 2017  and 2018  respectively, while core inflation was projected to be at 0.6 and 0.8 percent 
in 2017  and 2018  respectively. Moreover, the Committee assessed  headline inflation to return to the 
lower bound of the target within the first half of 2018.  
Risks to the growth projection were expected to be in balance  with the likelihood that the Thai economy 
would achieve stronger growth than the baseline projection , given a better growth outlook of Thailand’s 
trading partners due to U.S. economic stimulus measures, China’s growth moderation that was orderly, and 
a continued recovery of Asian exports. Other upside risks included a larger -than-expected public spending  
following the speedup of infrastructure investment and accelerated spending of funds accumulated by local 
administrative organizations. On the downside, there were possibilities that the growth outturn might be lower 
than the baseline projection due to un certainties pertaining to U.S. foreign trade policy, geopolitical risks, and 
risks of lower -than-expected domestic spending as improvement in purchasing power was not yet sufficiently 
broad -based.  
Risks to the inflation projection were also assessed to be in balance . Upside risks that inflation might 
be higher than the baseline projection could come from higher crude oil prices on the back of global economic 
recovery, heightened geo -political risks, and minimum wages increases in 2018. However, on the downs ide, 
inflation might fall below the baseline projection from weaker -than-expected demand -pull pressures.  
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report December  2017  4 1. The Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to gain further traction mainly on the back of stronger 
consumption, labor market conditions and manufacturing . The gradual pick -up in 
investment would provide additional  growth momentum in the period ahead .  
The U.S. economy continued to expand  on the back of improvement in private 
consumption, underpinned by robust  consumer confidence, a strong er labor market , and 
sound  household financial position s. Meanwhile, private investment also expanded  following 
continued  improvements in business confidence and gradual pick -up in corporate profits , 
which would be an important growth driver in the period ahead . In the third quarter, growth of 
the U.S. economy was more broad -based and started to show  signs of private investment 
expansion , while the impact from the hurricane on the economy overall was limited . 
Nevertheless, the passing  of the U.S tax reform  bill in late December 2017 would partly help 
boost further economic growth in the future. Euro area economies continued to grow  driven 
mainly by consumption and export s. In the period ahead, accommodative financial conditions, 
robust consumer confidence an d gradual recovery of the labor market would support 
consumption as a key economic growth driver. Japan’s economy was projected to expand  
thanks to the expansion of exports and manufacturing  in tandem with global trade recovery. 
In addition, private consum ption would continue  to expand on the back of robust consumer 
confidence and the improved labor market.  
Looking ahead, growth of advanced economies could face risks stemming from (1) 
uncertainties pertaining to U.S. economic policies  such as foreign  trade policy and 
infrastructure investment policy, (2) negotiations on trade and other issues between the U.K. 
and the European Union after Brexit, and (3) political uncertaint ies in Europe, particularly on 
government formation in Germany and the election  in Italy.  
China’s growth slightly slowed down. Meanwhile, o ther Asian economies exhibited better -
than-expected growth due to continued improvement in export s supported  by global demand 
and a gradual recover y of domestic demand as confidence of private se ctor picked up .  
In the third quarter of 2017, China’s growth slightly slowed down from the 
previous quarter.  The growth outturn, however, was better than the assessment in the 
previous Monetary Policy Report  driven by  export s, consumption , and investment in 
construction and manufacturing . In the period ahead, China’s growth would likely slow down 
due to (1) financial stability measures, where  additional measures to manage risks arising 
from off-balance sheet assets of commercial banks and m ore stringent lending standards for 
local administrations were recently announced  (anti-speculation measures in the real estate 
market were  already in place since the end of last year ) and (2) ongoing economic structural 
reforms such as  a reduction in exce ss production capacity and a shutdown of factories  that 
caused environmental pollution . Nevertheless , improved  global demand and additional 
targeted financial measures to support SME financing would help sustain a gradual adjustment 
of the Chinese economy.  However , high corporate debt remained an issue for financial system 
stability risks that warrant ed close monitoring.  
Asian economies (excluding Japan and China) gained further traction driven 
mainly  by export s. Such e xport expansion  was more broad -based across  wider range of 
product categories , including electronics, machinery and equipment, commodities and food Monetary Policy Report December  2017  5 (Chart 1.1). Improved exports also supported manufacturing to gradually recover (Chart 1.2) 
and boosted corporate performance and confidence. The se, in turn, resulted in a stronger 
employment  in some countries , which would help support household consumption in the 
period ahead. In the third quarter, Asian economies accelerated at a faster pace than usual, 
partly due to the Hari Raya Aidilfriti  holidays which took place in June instead of July and the 
moon festival s in South Korea and Taiwan which were postponed from September to  October. 
Therefore, there were more working days in the third quarter compared with the previous  year 
and also a temporary  acceleration of economic activities. Looking ahead, Asian economies 
were projected to gradually expand despite some risks from (1) elevated  household debt which 
could weigh on domestic demand recovery in several  countries, (2) a faster -than-expected 
slowd own of the Chinese economy which would undermine overall Asian exports, (3) 
uncertaint ies surrounding the U.S. foreign  trade policy which could impact global and Asian 
trade, and (4) geopolitical risks in the Korean peninsula and the Middle East.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The growth outlook  for Thailand’s trading partners was revised up, with upside and downside 
risks to the baseline projection  largely balanced .  
Economic g rowth of Thailand’s trading partners would likely be stronger than the 
assessment in the previous Monetary Policy Report . This was attributable to better -than-
expected economic outturns in the third quarter of many countries , coupled with growth 
momentum  in the period ahead from improv ed economic fundamentals. The Committee thus 
revised up the growth forecast for Thailand’s trading partners to 3.8  percent and 3.5  percent 
in 2017 and 2018, respectively (Table 1.1).  
The Committee assess ed that  risks to growth of Thailand’s trading partners were 
largely balance d, which improved from the previous assessment that downside risks 
outweigh d upside risks . This was due to higher -than-expected growth in advanced economies 
and China , which propelled growth of  Asian exports . However, there remained risks that 
warranted monitoring includ ing (1) uncertaint ies pertaining to U.S. economic policies  such as 
foreign  trade policy and public infrastructure investment and (2) geopolitical risks that could 
intensify and lead to increased volatility in the financia l markets, commodity prices , as well as 
business, trade and tourism confidence .  
 
 
5060708090100110120130140
Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17Electronics (41.0%) Other Manufacturing Products (22.9%)
Commodity (21.0%) Machinery (5.7%)
Transportation (8.2%) Food (1.2%)Oct 17Index, sa(Jan 2013 = 100 )Chart 1.1 Overall increasing trend for Asian exports which 
became more broad -based across product categories
Note: *Asian exports include Hong Kong, Taiwan, S. Korea, Malaysia and Singapore . 
( ) share of total exports in 2016
Commodities include crude oil, metals, chemicals, rubber, and vegetable oil.
Other manufacturing products include textile, papers, furniture, footwear and 
miscellaneous 
Source: CEICAsian exports value* classified by product categories
90100110120130140
Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17TW S. Korea Singapore Philippines
Malaysia Indonesia Asia*
Sep-17
Note: Asia* consists of Indonesia, Taiwan, S. Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and 
the Philippines weighted by nominal GDP
The latest data is a preliminary data, assuming steady growth for 
countries whose data is not yet released. 
Source : CEICChart 1.2 Asian industrial production increased in line with exports
Asian industrial production index*
Index, sa(Jan 2015 = 100)Monetary Policy Report December  2017  6  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most central banks maintained their accommodative monetary policy stance . However, some 
central banks raised their policy interest rate.  
 Monetary policy of most central banks remained accommodative . However,  some  
central banks  raised their policy interest rate such as the Federal Reserve (Fed) and the Bank 
of England (BOE). The Fed commenced its balance sheet reduction in October 2017 as 
previously announced and hiked the federal funds  rate once in December 2017. Meanwhile, 
the European Central Bank (ECB) announced  its plan  to reduce its monthly bond purchase 
from 60 to 30 billion euros per month from January  until September 2018. This was on account 
of a cont inued recovery of the e uro area economies , while inflation remained subdued. 
Therefore, accommodative monetary policy was still necessary to support the economies for 
an extended period . In addition, the Bank of Korea (BOK) raised its policy rate for the f irst time 
since 2011 in November thanks to a continuation of a better -than-expected growth of the 
Korea n economy, while inflation was projected to gradually trend up toward the target.  
Moreover, signs  of divergence in monetary policy were also observed among other countries 
in the region  due to a continued economic expansion and rising inflation toward the target , 
which would allow for monetary policy normalization in the period ahead.  
Capital flows in Asia recorded higher net inflow s in recent periods following market 
expectations on the U.S. tax reform policy and the gradual monetary policy normalization of 
major advanced economies.  
 In October 2017, net capital inflows to emerging market Asia (EM Asia) slowed down 
slightly from the previous  period due to uncertaint ies regarding the appointment of the new 
Fed chairman , which could affect the U.S. monetary policy stance s, and a more progress in a 
consideration of  the draft U.S. tax reform bill. However, capital inflows to EM Asia acce lerated 
somewhat in November 2017 (Chart 1.3) because (1) investors anticipated delay in the U.S. 
tax reform, (2) the new Fed chairman and central  banks of other major advanced economies 
were poised to gradually normalize their monetary polic ies, and (3) A sia’s economic outlook 
continu ed to improve as its economic growth outpaced that of major advanced economies. 
However, the size of capital inflows varied across countries as investors put more 
Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partners’ economic growth
Annual change (%YoY) Weight (%) 2016* 2017 2018
United States 14.9 1.6 2.3   .  2.5 (2.1)
Euro area 10.0 1.7 2.2 (2.1) 1.8 (1.6)
Japan 13.6 1.0 1.5 (1.5) 1.2 (1.1)
China 15.7 6.7 6.8 (6.7) 6.5 (6.3)
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 37.4 3.5 4.5 (4.2) 4.1 (3.9)
Total***  100.0 3.1 3.8 (3.6) 3.5 (3.4)
Note: *Outturn
* Weighted by share of exports from Thailand to 7 trading partners in 2014, namely Singapore 
(6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia (8%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), South Korea 
(2.8%), and the Philippines (3.7%)
** Weighted by share of exports from Thailand to 13 trading partners in 2014 (including the 
United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) as reported in Monetary Policy Report, September 2017Monetary Policy Report December  2017  7 consideration on country -specific factors including economic fu ndamentals and the policy rate  
outlook .  
 Looking ahead, global financial markets would likely remain volatile. International 
capital movements might fluctuate, both in and out of Thailand, particularly given monetary 
policy normalization commenced by several central banks, together with heightened 
uncertainties on the external front such as the U.S. foreign trade policy and geopolitical risks , 
whose developments would warrant close monitoring.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crude oil prices rose from temporary factors in the fourth quarter of 2017 but would likely 
decrease in early 2018 following an increase in supply from shale oil producers  in the U.S.  
Nonetheless, oil prices would slowly trend up in the period ahead in tandem with the global 
econom ic recovery.  
 In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Dubai crude oil price increased from the 
previous quarter.  Prices reached a two -year record high in November 2017 due to (1) a 
gradual decline  in oil stock following demand expansion, (2) compliance to the agreement on 
production cuts among OPEC and Non -OPEC producers, and (3) heightened geopolitical risks 
in the Middle East. However, the Committee expected  prices in early 2018 to fall  because 
the oil rig count and oil productions of shale oil producers in the U.S. would likely  rise 
considerably given the continuation of high oil prices.  Moreover, geopolitical risks were 
expected to alleviate. However,  crude oil prices would gradually trend up  in the period ahead , 
supported by an ex tension of the OPEC and Non -OPEC’s agreement on production cuts until 
the end of 2018. This would bring down the excess oil supply to a balance d level, while a pick -
up in demand would continue following global economic recovery.  
 Hence, the Committee revi sed up the projection for Dubai crude oil prices from 
50.9 and 52.8 dollars per barrel to 52.8 and 55.0 dollars per barrel in 2017 and 2018, 
respectively.  Moreover, risks to the projection tilted to the  upside instead of balanced as in 
the previous project ion. This was a result of geopolitical risks in the Middle East and the 
Korean Peninsula that could lift oil prices up in some periods . Moreover, a rise in  crude oil 
supply from the U.S. shale oil producers would likely be  slower or lower than previously 
expected.  However, other risks could stem from failure to comply with the  agreement among 
-25,000-15,000-5,0005,00015,00025,000
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17
Nov-17India S. Korea Malaysia*
Thailand Indonesia Net capital inflows
Note: Foreign portfolio flows to Malaysia’s equity market were calculated 
from international investment position (IIP) which was available until 
September 2017.
Sources:  Institutional Institute of Finance and  Bank Negara MalaysiaChart  1.3 Capital flows to EM Asia increased from previous quarter 
due mainly to changing expectations on U.S. economic policies
Million USDCapital flows to equity and bond markets in EM Asia*Monetary Policy Report December  2017  8 OPEC and Non -OPEC producers , resulting in a decline or a  slower -than-expected increase  
in crude oil  price s.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
020406080100120140
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Upper bound                 Lower bound        September 2017        December 2017U.S. dollar/barrelChart 1.4 Dubai crude oil price hit 2 -year record high due to 
temporary factors but would likely decrease in early 2018 following 
increase in U.S. shale oil supply
Assumption on Dubai crude oil priceMonetary Policy Report December  2017  9 2. The Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent Developments   
Thailand’s economic growth gained further traction in the third quarter of  0 7 from 
the previous quarter with growth outturn close to the previous assessment in the previous 
Monetary Policy Report . Main drivers were strong expans ions of merchandise exports and 
tourism as well as continued domestic demand growth. Meanwhile, the impact from 
regulations on immigrant workers gradually subsided.  
The Thai economy expanded 4.3 percent in the third quarter of 2017  from the same 
period la st year, an improvement from 3.8 percent in the previous quarter. The key growth 
driver was an expansion of merchandise exports across almost all product categories and 
export destinations. In particular, exports of rice, prawns, and electronics expanded i n tandem  
with improved external demand. Exports of services continued to grow despite some 
slowdown compared with the previous quarter due to a drop in tourists from Europe and 
Malaysia. Private consumption expanded in all product categories thanks to imp rovements in 
non-farm income and demand for consumer credit. While private investment slowed down due 
to a contraction in the construction sector, investment in machinery and equipment increased 
across almost all business sectors. Meanwhile, the public sec tor remained a key growth driver  
on the back of an acceleration in public consumption. On the other hand, public investment 
slowed down as the government’s water development and management projects and 
emergency road projects neared completion . In additio n, state -owned enterprises investment 
was mostly ongoing without disbursement in additional large projects. Overall, the Thai 
economy recorded a 1.1 percent growth, after seasonal adjustment, in the third quarter of 
2017, close to the growth rate of the pr evious quarter.  
Thailand’s economic growth continued to gain further traction over the first two 
months of the fourth quarter . Merchandise exports were robust in all major export 
destinations and almost all product categories  in tandem with continued improvements in 
external demand and global trade recovery. In addition, there were positive spillovers from 
export expansion to all sizes of businesses which resulting in higher labor income in export -
related businesses. Service exports recorded stronger g rowth on account of increased foreign 
tourists in almost all groups coupled with the low base effect from last year’s measures to curb 
illegal tour operators. Overall private consumption gradually expanded despite some 
slowdown in October due to temporary factors. Supporting factors were improved non -farm 
income and tax measures that implemented to stimulate the economy at the end of last year. 
However, farm income dropped somewhat from the previous quarter as outputs were affected 
from flooding in some are as and prices of agricultural products declined. Private investment 
continued to improve while remaining at a low level. Investment in machinery and equipment 
increased in line with higher imports of capital goods in several categor ies, e.g. 
telecommunicat ion, energy, and photography and film equipment. Meanwhile, sales in 
construction materials dropped due to flooding in some areas. Public spending increas ed from 
both current and investment expenditure. Current spending expanded in line with 
compensation o f employees especially for government pensions. Capital expenditure 
increased from public investment especially by the  Department of Highways, the Department 
of Rural Roads, and the Department of Irrigation. Meanwhile, state -owned enterprises Monetary Policy Report December  2017  10 investment slowed down following accelerated disbursement for the power plant project and 
the natural gas pipeline projects previously.  
Household purchasing power was not yet sufficiently broad -based. Some agricultural 
households were affected by declining in agricul tural product prices. Meanwhile, 
nonagricultural households did not fully benefit from the economic recovery, especially the 
low-income group.  
Agricultural household  income was higher from the previous year due mainly to 
higher output , although prices of m any agricultural products , e.g., rubber, cattle, and palm oi l, 
declined given  higher supply in the market. In addition, some households were also affected 
by flooding in some areas. Nonagricultural households  did not fully benefit from the 
economic recover y. Nonetheless, total non -farm income rose thanks to higher average 
earnings (wages and overtime payment) per head, particularly for the high-income group 
whose business benefiting from export s and tourism. Meanwhile, nonagricultural employment 
declined from the previous quarter (Chart 2.1), especially in the low -income group of daily 
workers in the manufacturing and construction sector s as well as business owners in the trade 
sector. While the services sector could absorb labor to some extent (Chart 2.2), some workers 
might earn less as they moved to sectors with lower productivity and wages.   
Lower employment in the manufacturing sector was observed in domestic -oriented 
businesses, especially  for small and medium enterprises (SMEs) that might find difficulty in 
coping with  higher business competition and fast developments of technology. In addition, 
business models that became  less reliant on labor also led to lower employment. For example, 
e-commerce helped reduce the need to open new branches and hire more employees. 
Moreover, modern trade businesses could adapt quickly to technology and have lower cost s. 
Nonetheless, the increasing adoption of automation was observed in the manufacturing 
sector, especially in high -growth export industries such as electronics, automobiles, and 
plastic. As a result, positive spillovers from export expansion to employment were largely 
limited. The Committee would thus closely monitor on employment and household income.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
95100105110115
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulAverage non-farm earning per head*
Non-farm employment
Total non-farm incomeChart 2.1 Overall non -farm income increased in line with average 
earning per head*, although employment in manufacturing and 
construction sectors declined
Average non -farm earning per head*, non -farm employment , 
and total non-farm income
Seasonally adjusted index ( 3-month moving average, January 2013 = 100)
Note: *Average non -farm earning per head was calculated from monthly 
average wages and overtime payment
Source: National Statistical Office and calculation by Bank of Thailand
-1.0-0.50.00.51.0
Mar-13
Jun-13
Sep-13
Dec-13
Mar-14
Jun-14
Sep-14
Dec-14
Mar-15
Jun-15
Sep-15
Dec-15
Mar-16
Jun-16
Sep-16
Dec-16
Mar-17
Jun-17
Sep-17Manufacturing Construction
Trade Service
Total non-farm employmentChart 2.2Service sector absorbed labor migrating from 
manufacturing and construction sectors
Change in non -farm employment classified by sector, compared to March 2013
Million people
Source: National Statistical Office and calculation by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  11 The impact of regulation on immigrant workers subsided but still  warranted monitoring.  
The government undertook measures to manage and legalize immigrant workers in 
Thailand through the issuance of the Royal Decree on Managing the Work of Aliens effective 
on June 23, 2017. Since then, immigrant workers gradually return ed after leaving Thailand 
earlier, and the impact of potential losses of purchasing power of immigrant workers on 
domestic consumption subsided. Meanwhile, most business owners were able to adjust and 
continue business activities, although some were faced with higher labor costs, especially for 
small and medium enterprises in the hotel and restaurant sector, construction, and trade who 
were highly dependent on immigrant workers. The risk of future labor shortage that might 
result from immigrant worker regis trations and nationality verifications declined after the 
government stepped up implementation and cooperation with the source countries. However, 
the Committee would continue to monitor the impacts of these measures.  
Headline inflation edged up mainly du e to energy prices, while core inflation slightly 
increased from excise tax restructuring .  
Headline inflation  averaged at 0.93 
percent over the first two months of the fourth 
quarter, up from 0.45 percent in the previous 
quarter (Chart 2.3). The  increase was 
attributable to (1) higher domestic retail oil 
prices in line with global oil prices, (2) higher 
energy charges (FT) during September – 
December 2017 following prices of natural gas 
which constituted a main part of electricity 
costs, and (3) higher liq uefied petroleum gas 
(LPG) prices in tandem with directions of global 
LPG prices. Meanwhile, a decline in fresh food 
prices was less pronounced as last year’s high base effects following the drought dissipated. 
However, this year’s weather conditions that were favorable for the output of vegetable and 
fruits remained a key factor behind a gradual rise in fresh food prices. The one -year-ahead 
inflation expectations of businesses were at 2.1 percent in November, close to the rate in the 
previous quarter’s sur vey. Meanwhile, five -year-ahead inflation expectations of professional 
forecasters were at 1.8 percent in October 2017, a drop from 2.3 percent from the previous 
survey in April 2017. 
Core inflation  averaged at 0.60 percent over the first two months of the  fourth quarter 
in 2017, up from 0.49 percent  in the previous quarter. Prices of food items in the core inflation 
basket were stable at low levels as costs of fresh food and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) 
remained low despite some slight increases (Chart 2.4). Prices of non -food components in 
core infl ation slightly rose due to an increase in excise tax on tobacco and alcoholic beverages. 
Meanwhile, prices of other items slowly trended up following a gradual domestic demand 
expansion (Chart 2.5). Moreover, structural factors partly put downward pressure  on prices of 
non-food components in core inflation. These factors included (1) globalization that enhanced 
price competitions and enabled businesses to gain easier access to cheaper raw materials, 
(2) technological advancements that led to lower costs of production, and (3) the greater role 
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Fresh food (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
OctNov
Note: ( ) denotes share in inflation baskets
Source: Ministry of Commerce and calculation by Bank of ThailandChart 2.3 Headline inflation picked up slightly from previous 
quarter mainly due to energy prices
Inflation target ( 2.5  1.5%)Headline inflation and inflation targetMonetary Policy Report December  2017  12 of e-commerce that led to lower costs and intensified pr ice competitions as consumers could 
easily make price comparisons.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short -term money market rates stayed low , while long -term government bond yields rose from 
both supply -side and external factors.  
Short -term money market rates  remained close to the policy interest rate in the fourth 
quarter of 2017, except for short -term government bond yields  that remained below the 
policy interest rate. This was attributable to both the reduction in the short -term bond 
issuances by the Bank o f Thailand and treasury bills issuances by the Ministry of Finance. 
However, short -term bond yields edged up somewhat in November as investors turned to 
long-term bonds which offered higher returns (Chart 2.6). Meanwhile , medium -term and 
long -term governme nt bond yields  were volatile in October due to external factors, 
especially uncertainties pertaining to U.S. tax policy reform. After that, yields gradually pick up 
owing to the higher supply of Thai government bonds and the U.S. tax policy reform that 
became more evident and could lead to budget deficits. Consequently, U.S. government bond 
yields were expected to rise and could lead to higher Thai government bond yields.  
(Chart 2.7).   
 
 
 
Table 2.1 Inflation
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct-Nov
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) 0.30 0.26 0.69 1.25 0.10 0.45 0.93
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.79 0.76 0.73 0.66 0.47 0.49 0.60
Raw food 4.24 2.58 1.54 0.61 -2.99 -2.25 -0.74
Energy -8.95 -7.00 -1.06 6.69 2.67 4.86 5.85
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommerceAnnual percentage change2017
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Non-alcoholic beverages
Seasoning and condiments
Prepared food
(Oct -Nov)PercentContribution to food -in-core inflation   8. 7  Chart 2.4 Prices of food items in core inflation remained at low 
levels, albeit picking up somewhat, as LPG and fresh food prices 
remained subdued
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of Thailand
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Tobacco and alcoholic beverages
Apparel and footwear
Recreation and reading
Medical and personal care
Transport and communication
Housing and furnishingPercent
(Oct-Nov)Chart 2.5 Prices of nonfood item in core inflation picked up due to 
increase in excise tax on tobacco and alcoholic beverages 
Contribution to non food -in-core inflation   7   
Note : *Contribution to inflation displayed composition of changes to inflation 
weighted by share of each component in inflation baskets  
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  13  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate bond yields  edged up alongside increases in gove rnment bond yields, 
particularly for corporate bonds with low credit rating and unrated bonds. Meanwhile, 
financing costs through commercial banks , as reflected in the new loan rate (NLR1/), were 
stable at a low level after having declined continuously (Chart 2.8).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall private credit continued to expand primarily due to acceleration in credit to 
households. Loans extended to SMEs began to pick up in several businesses, reflecting 
a more broad -based economic recovery.  
Private credit  expanded2/ 3.3 and 3. 2 percent in the third quarter and October 2017, 
respectively , from the same period last year (Chart 2.9). This  was largely due to household 
credit growth, particularly mortgage and auto loans which accelerated after the cars bought 
under the fir st-car scheme reached the five -year contract period. On the other hand, overall 
business credit growth slowed down, especially for credits to businesses in manufacturing and 
trade sectors. This was partly owing to debt repayment of large corporates. Howeve r, credits 
to SMEs in the food and beverage, real estate and utilities sectors  expanded. Working capital 
                                           
1/ NLR is calculated based on a weighted average of interest rates for new loan contracts extended by 14 Thai 
 commercial banks (excluding consumer loans and loans to financial intermediaries). The data covers loans of 
 value of 20 million baht or higher for all purposes and terms, and includes both secured and non -secured loans. 
 Moreover, interest rates used in t he calculation refer to the mid -rate between the lowest and the highest rates in 
 each loan contract.  
2/ Outstanding credit of other depositary corporations (ODCs), namely commercial banks, specialized financial 
 institutions, finance companies, saving cooperatives, and market mutual funds.  
1.001.251.501.75
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct% p.a.
policy rate  O/N Interbank
1 month Gov. bond 1 month BIBOR
 0   0 7Chart 2.6 Short -term government bond yields started to rise due to 
changes in investor behavior, while other short -term rates were 
largely unchanged
Short -term rates in financial market
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.
2016Chart 2.7 Medium -and long -term government bond yields rose 
owing to domestic supply -side and external factors
Thai government bond yields
2017
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)
Chart 2.8 New Loan Rate (NLR ) was stable at low level 
after continuously trending down
New Loan Rate
7.00
6.20
5.03
4.03
2.75
1.50
02468
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan JulMLR NLR Policy rate% p.a.
 0 3  0 7  0   0   0  
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  14 loans to export -oriented sectors continued to expand such as electronics, hard -disk drives , 
and rubber and plastic products.  
The issuance of corporate  bonds  expanded at 14.2 percent in the third quarter of 
2017  from the same period last year, especially in finance and banking sectors. As of the latest 
data in October 2017, net issuance of corporate bonds slightly edged down to 13.7 percent 
with the new issuances dominated by the finance and banking sectors (Chart 2.10). Funding 
through the equity market increased markedly at the beginning of the third quarter of 2017 
in businesses related to food, banking, and petrochemical and chemical products. The 
increase in funding was mainly for financial restructuring and business expansion purposes. 
Funding through equity continued to rise from both capital increases by several businesses  
and initial public offering (IPO) by construction material companies to f inance development in 
business operation and efficiency as well as business expansions both overseas and 
domestically.  
Going forward, financial conditions were expected to remain accommodative , as 
reflected in the real policy interest rate which remaine d at a low level and was moderate 
compared with other countries (Chart 2.11). Meanwhile , financing costs through commercial 
banks, as reflected in the new loan rate (NLR), were stable at a low level. Nonetheless, the 
Credit Condition Survey3/ indicated tha t financial institutions would still maintain caution in 
extending credit to households and certain businesses, especially SMEs with deteriorating 
credit quality.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
3/  Report on Credit Conditions Q3/2017 and Outlook for Q4/2017 
Chart 2.9 Private credit expanded mainly on account of 
household credit
Growth of private credit
Percentage change from the same period last year
0246810
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulBusiness credit Household credit Total private credit
2.13.9
3.2
Source: Bank of ThailandNote: Private credit includes credit to other depositary corporations ( ODCs) 
namely commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, finance 
companies, saving cooperatives, and money market mutual funds
13.7**
2.14.9
010203040
Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Outstanding of corporate bond
Business credit*
Total financingChart  2.10 Total financing continued but at slightly 
slower pace
Growth of corporate bond outstanding and business credit  
Percentage change from the same period last year
Note :   *Business credit covers lending activities of Other Depository 
Corporations (ODCs) namely commercial banks, special financial 
institutions, saving cooperatives and money market mutual funds  
**In August, telecommunication and energy businesses did not roll -over 
their matured debt during that month, resulting in slower growth of 
corporate bond outstanding.
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA )
Chart 2.11  Thailand’s real policy rate remained low
Real policy rates*
Note : *Calculated from  policy rate less 1 -year ahead inflation expectation 
surveyed by the Consensus Forecasts (data as of 4December 2017)
Source: Consensus Economics and calculation by Bank of Thailand-2.0-1.5-1.0-0.50.00.51.01.5
US EU JP UK NZ KR ID MY PH IN THPercentageMonetary Policy Report December  2017  15 The baht remained largely unchanged. However, the baht marginally appreciated ag ainst 
the U.S. dollar as the dollar weakened. Meanwhile, the real effective exchange rate 
appreciated somewhat in line with improvements in economic fundamentals.  
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the baht slightly strengthened against the U.S. dollar  
relati ve to the end of the previous quarter. This was mainly due to the weakening of  
the U.S. dollar (Chart 2.12), underpinned by negative market sentiments on the U.S. dollar, 
particularly in mid -November when  the U.S. tax policy reform was expected to be dela yed. 
Moreover, expectation of  the Fed’s gradual rate hikes by the  new Fed chairman  put downward 
pressures on the dollar. The ECB’s further monetary policy easing and political uncertainty in 
Europe also played a part in attracting investors to redirect their attention toward the Asian 
markets, especially in economies with positive econo mic outlook such as South Korea, 
Malaysia , and Thailand. Hence, the baht appreciated against major currencies , in line with 
directions of most regional currencies. Despite the Fed’s rate hike4/ and the on -track progress 
of the U.S. tax policy reform, the e xchange rates were broadly unchanged. However, during 
the latter half of December, the baht weakened against the U.S. dollar partly due to merging 
and acquisition investment overseas by large corporates. Overall , the baht remained largely 
unchanged against  the U.S. dollar from the previous quarter. As of December 19, 2017 the 
baht appreciated 2 percent from the end of the previous quarter, closing at 32.68 to the dollar.  
 The nominal effective exchange rate (NEER)  stood at 113.34 on December 19, 2017 
which represented a 1.6 percent appreciation from the end of the previous quarter, driven by 
the baht’s appreciation against major currencies, namely the Japanese yen, the U.S. dollar, 
the Chinese yuan, and the Australian dollar. As of the end of November 201 7, the real 
effective exchange rate (REER)  rose by 4 percent from the end of last year, which  was less 
than the NEER appreciation of roughly   percent. This was owing to Thailand’s relatively low 
inflation compared with trading partners which helped allevi ate to some extent the impact of 
the NEER appreciation on price competitiveness. In addition, Thailand’s REER appreciated 
somewhat consistent with improvements in economic fundamentals and was broadly in line 
with these of other currencies (Chart 2.13). In  the period ahead, exchange rates would likely 
remain volatile due to external factors including uncertainties surrounding U.S. economic 
policies, monetary policy directions of major advanced economies, and geopolitical risks.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
4/  On December 13, 2017, the Fed raised its federal fund rate by 25 basis points to 1.25 -1.50 percent with a non -
 unanimous vote. The markets therefore anticipated that the Fed’s future rate hikes could be slower than 
 expected. 
32
33
34
35
36
37 9095100105110115
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul OctChart 2.12 Baht strengthened against weak U.S . dollar
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 19 December 2017 )USDTHB, NEER, DXY
Baht per U.S. dollar Index
2015 2016 2017USDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
DXY
859095100105110115120
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan JulIndia
IndonesiaTaiwan
S. Korea
PhilippinesThailand
China
Singapore
Malaysia
2015 2016 2017 2014Appreciation
Chart 2.13 Thailand’s real effective exchange rate  appreciated 
only slightly in comparison to those of other regional economies
Real effective exchange rate (REER) by country
Index  (2014 = 100)
Source: BIS and calculation by Bank of Thailand (data as of December 2017)Monetary Policy Report December  2017  16 Financial stability remained  sound overall. However, there remained pockets of risks that 
warranted monitoring , including (1) debt serviceability of SMEs and low -income 
households given the economic recovery which was not yet broad -based,  (2) search -for-
yield behavior, and (3) oversupply of condominium units in some areas.  
Thailand’s financial stability remained sound overall with strong external position as 
reflected in a high level of foreign exchange reserves and high liquidity of foreign currencies 
reflecting in sustained  current account surplus which would provide cushion against volatilities 
in global financial markets. At the same time, large corporates showed positive outlooks on 
the back of stronger financial positions.  Financial institutions continued to be sound th anks to 
high levels of capital buffers and provisions for loan losses to cushion against risks stemming 
from deteriorating credit quality. Nonetheless, the Committee assessed that there remained 
pockets of risks that could lead to the buildup of vulnerabil ities in the financial system in the 
period ahead and thus warranted close monitoring. These risks are summarized as follows.  
(1) Debt serviceability of both SMEs and low -income households  remained 
fragile  as the positive spillovers of economic growth was  not yet sufficiently broad -based. 
SMEs, particularly in manufacturing, trade and construction sectors  that operated based on a 
traditional model, faced difficulties in business adjustments and cost managements. As a result,  
these firms  had fragile financi al positions, reflecting in deteriorati on in the operating profit 
margin, the interest coverage ratio , and credit quality. The ratio of nonperforming loans (NPL) 
among SMEs stood at 4.6 percent in the third quarter of 2017, up from 4.4 percent in the 
previ ous quarter. However, credit quality of export -oriented SMEs  showed signs of 
improvement . Default risks of corporate bonds did not significantly increase among both rated 
and unrated bonds as the new issuance of unrated bonds continued to fall. The Committ ee 
would closely monitor corporate bonds that would mature in the period ahead, especially those 
issued by businesses with fragile financial 
positions.  
Debt serviceability of households 
deteriorated, as reflected in the rising NPL 
ratio in the third quart er of 2017, 
particularly mortgage loans. Moreover, the 
persistent low interest rates had some 
impact on households’ saving behavior. 
The ratio of household debt to financial 
assets (prox ied for debt accumulation 
relative to savings) continued to rise for all 
income groups. This was particularly the 
case for low -income households as they 
had limited cushions against economic 
volatilities (Chart 2.14).   
(2) The search -for-yield behavior and any signs of underpricing of risks must be 
monitored as interest rates in major advanced economies began to rise.  The prolonged 
period of low interest rates in Thailand remained a key factor in prompting Thai investors to 
search for higher return by investing in  riskier assets. Despite limited systematic risks overall, 
signs of underpricing of risks still warranted monitoring. In particular, foreign investment funds 
Chart 2.14 Household financial cushion deteriorated
024681012141618
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintile 4 Quintile 5 TotalClassified by income
percentile 25
percentile 50
percentile 75%
024681012141618
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
 0 3
 0  
2017H1
Farm
businessNon-farm
businessProfessional Worker TotalClassified by occupation
percentile 25
percentile 50
percentile 75%Debt to financial assets ratio
Source: Socio -Economic Survey, National Statistical Office, and calculations 
by Bank of ThailandNote: Calculated based on indebted households.
1/ Quintile 1 has the lowest income/head/year. Quintile 5 has the 
highest income/head/year.
2/ Professional households include managers, academics and 
professionals, technicians
3/ Worker households refer to workers in agriculture, forestry, fishery, 
machine operations, clerks, services, handicrafts, production 
processingMonetary Policy Report December  2017  17 (FIF) continued to expand , with increasing concentration risk (Chart 2.15). Although most 
funds in vested in deposits and short -term debt securities in countries with investment -grade 
credit ratings, there was still risk of investment concentration in some countries. Moreover, 
savings cooperatives continued to expand their investments in risky assets su ch as bonds and 
equity. Thus, the Committee would closely monitor linkages between saving cooperatives and 
the financial system through commercial banks and specialized financial institutions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(3) Oversupply of condominium units was found  in ce rtain areas.  Although overall 
risks were stable, there remained the need to continue monitoring developments in the 
property market. First, there was a longer “time -to-go” for condominium units along the MRT 
Purple Line (Khlong Bang Phai –Tao Poon) and the MRT Blue Line (Bang Sue –Tha Phra) 
compared with the average of condominium units in Bangkok and its vicinity. Second, the 
impact from investment in mixed -used real estate projects must also be monitored. Mixed -
used projects consisted of both residential an d commercial uses such as offices and shopping 
centers in the same area. Over the next 1-3 years, the impact of their launches was not yet a 
concern, as most large -scale projects are currently under construction and demand for each 
type of real estates could absorb the rising supply. However, when large -scale mixed -used 
projects are completed in  the next 4-5 years, there might be an acceleration of supply of 
residential, office, and retail projects. Consequently, an oversupply might occur in the case 
where the economy does not turn out as expected by businesses , and developers are unable 
to make adjustments regarding their launches according to the real estate market cycle. As a 
result, financial institutions that have lent to these developers would be affected because these 
borrowers rely on funding through commercial banks as their main financin g channel.  
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.15 FIF investment continued to expand at high rates
6.23 
-505101520
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Money Market Fund Foreign Investment Fund (FIF)
Equity Fund Fixed Income Fund
Property Fund (Type 1)* Infrastructure fund
Other Growth (yoy%)Percentage change from the same period last yearGrowth of mutual funds and contributions to growth
Note: *Property Fund (Type 1) is a mutual fund that invests in real estate with          
regular income from rents, e.g. offices, where the profits will be 
distributed to unit holders in forms of dividends.
Source: Association of Investment Management Companies (AIMC)Monetary Policy Report December  2017  18  2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  
Under the Committee’s assessment, Thailand’s economic growth was projected to 
gain further traction going forward and attain a higher growth rate of 3.9 percent in both 2017 
and 2018, compared with the assessment in the previous Monetary Policy Report . The key 
growth drivers included (1) robust expansion of merchandise exports and tourism in line with 
a stronger growth outlook of Thailand’s trading partners,     a gradual rise in private 
consumption that began to be more broad -based, and (3) a sustained fis cal impetus despite 
delay in some investment projects.  Meanwhile, inflation was projected to remain at a low level 
due mainly to supply side -factors but would gradually trend up.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the key forecast assumptions  
 Trading  partner economies  were projected to achieve higher growth rates than previously 
assessed as most growth outturns in the third quarter of 2017 were better than expected.  In 
particular, Asian economies continued to grow on the back of exports. In addition, as China ’s 
financial stability risk s subsided, the authorities were able to implement additional financial 
measures aimed at specific groups to support business financing.  
 The federal funds rate  was raised as expected in the FOMC meeting in December 2017. The 
Fed was expected to raise the policy rate three times in 2018 and to gradually commence its 
balance sheet reduction in accordance with the announced plan.  
 Asian currencies (excluding the Chinese yuan)  were stronger than the previous assessment 
given the outtu rns in the third quarter of 2017. In addition, a  number of central banks in Asia started 
to signal changes in their monetary policy direction , as reflected in a gradual rise in monetary policy 
normalization that was sooner than expected.   
 The Dubai crude oil price  was projected to rise following the extension to the production cut 
between OPEC and non -OPEC from March 2018 to the end of 2018.  
 Farm income was revised down from the previous assessment due mainly to lower 
agricultural prices resulting from hig her-than-expected agricultural output, especially rubber, 
livestock, and palm oil, thanks to favorable weather conditions.  
 Public spending at current prices was revised down from the previous assessment. This was 
due to (1) a lower -than-expected disburseme nt of investments by central government owing to 
limited disbursement efficiency, a reduction in the additional budget for 2018, and the holdover of 
some state -owned enterprise investment projects from 2017 to 2018, and (2) a downward revision 
of public co nsumption as outturns were lower than expected in the third quarter of 2017.  
 
Table  2.2  Summary of forecasts 
Percent 2016* 2017 2018
GDP growth 3.2 3.9 (3.8) 3.9 (3.8) 
Headline inflation 0.2 0.7 (0.6) 1.1 (1.2)
Core inflation 0.7 0.6 (0.6) 0.8 (0.9)
Note: * Outturn
( ) Monetary Policy Report, September 2017
Sources : NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, estimations by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  19   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expansion in merchandise exports was broad -based across product categories and 
export destinations .  
The value of merchandise exports was expected to record higher growth than those 
reported in the previous Monetary Policy Report  and register 9.3 percent and 4.0 percent in 
2017 and 2018, respectively. Thai merchandise exports gained further traction acros s various 
product categories, particularly electronics, auto parts, and processed agricultural products 
(Chart 2.16), and across almost all export destinations thanks to continued expansion of the 
global economy and global trade volume (Chart 2.17). Moreov er, the export of electronics 
were expected to record higher growth, especially integrated  circuits which would be used in 
Internet of Things (IoT) devices and electronic parts in automobiles. Exports of smartphones 
and motorcycles expanded in line with th e relocation of production bases to Thailand. In 
addition, export prices were projected to rise in line with crude oil prices, especially for 
commodities and oil -related exports such as petroleum products.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2016* 2017 2018
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 41.4 52.8 (50.9) 55.0 (52.8)
Farm income (% YoY) 1.4 4.4 (6.3) 4.1 (4.3)
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,456 2,552 (2,566) 2,708 (2,710)
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/936 953 (987) 1,067 (1,123)
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 0.63 1.38 (1.38) 2.13 (2.13)
Trading partners’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.1 3.8 (3.6) 3.5 (3.4)
Regional currencies (excl. China) vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar (index)3/ 154.8 155.8 (156.3) 154.3 (156.4)
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand total exports
                     3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
               * Outturns
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2017Annual percentage change
Chart 2.16 Merchandise exports continued to expand across 
several product categories
406080100120140160
Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17Electrical appliances (5.8) Vehicle parts (6.3)
Electronics ex. HDD (8.3) Petroleum-related (10.6)
Agro-manu (12.0)
Note: Number in ( ) denotes share of total exports in 2016.
Source: Customs Department and calculations by Bank of ThailandSeasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Value of Thai exports classified by product categories 
Chart 2.17 Merchandise exports expanded across almost all export 
destinations
708090100110120
Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17ASEAN (25.4) US (11.4) China (11.0)
EU (10.2) Japan (9.5)Value of Thai Exports Classified by Destination
Seasonally adjusted index, 3-month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)
Note: Number in ( ) denotes share of total exports in 2016
Source: Customs Department and calculation by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  20  However, the growth outlook of Thai 
exports in 2018 was projected to expand at 
a slower pace both in terms of volume and 
price due to several reasons. First, global 
trade volume growth and commodity prices 
were expected to slow down after having 
accelerate d in 2017. Second, there was one -
time effect of the relocation of production 
bases to Thailand, such as automobile tires, 
hard disk drives, and smart phones. Third, 
export growth was expected to slow down in 
some products such as (1) rubber exports to 
China given a high level of rubber stocks and (2) rice exports after accelerating earlier as 
several countries experienced natural disasters.  There were also structural problems in certain 
industries that might take some time to be resolved. Nonetheless, the m onthly average value 
of merchandise exports was projected to reach 20.3 billion U.S. dollar in 2018 that would be 
a record high in many years (Chart 2.18). However, export growth could expand at the rate 
exceeding the base projection rate as the trading pa rtners’  economies might exhibit stronger -
than-expected growth on the back of U.S. economic stimulus policies and higher -than-
expected oil prices. On the other hand, risks to the export outlook included uncertainties 
pertaining to U.S. foreign trade policy,  geopolitical risks that could undermine the global 
economic outlook, and a potential slowdown in China as a result of ongoing economic reforms.   
Export of services was revised down slightly in 2017 but was projected to gain further 
traction in 2018 suppo rted by improvements in the tourism sector .   
Export of services was revised down slightly in 2017 as outturns for non -tourism 
receipts were lower than expected.  Export of services was projected to expand at a rate close 
to the previous assessment in 2018  on the back of robust growth of the tourism sector.  
Accordingly, the Committee maintained the projection for the number of foreign tourists at 35.6 
and 37.3 million in 2017 and 2018, respectively. Factors supporting the tourism sector are (1) 
an increasi ng number of Chinese tourists, both group tourists with higher spending per head 
and independent tourists with high purchasing power, partly thanks to the opening of new 
direct flight routes from China to major tourist destinations in Thailand, (2) a risin g number of 
ASEAN tourists which was in line with regional economic growth, (3) the reduction and 
exemption of tourist visa fees which yield benefit to increasing numbers of foreign tourists in 
the previous period  (the visa exemption now ceased to apply bu t this had only marginal effects 
on the overall number of tourists) , and (4) high growth of tourism receipts that was in tandem 
with global economic expansion as well as higher -spending tourists.           
 Given improvements in the value of merchandise an d services exports, the projection 
for the value of merchandise and services imports was revised up with higher imports of raw 
materials and intermediate goods and higher oil prices.  Consequently, the current account 
would continue to record large surplus  and would be higher than previously estimated, 
registering surplus of 48.6 and 43.1 billion U.S. dollars in 2017 and 2018, respectively .  
 
 
Chart 2.18 Merchandise export value was expected to remain high in 2018
Billion USDValue of exported goods (monthly average)
18.419.0 19.0 18.9
17.8 17.919.520.3
16.517.017.518.018.519.019.520.020.5
 0   0   0 3 0   0   0   0 7 2018f
Source: Customs Department, Ministry of Commerce and calculation by 
Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  21 Private consumption was projected to expand at a gradual pace.  
Private consumption was projected to gradually expand going forward supported 
several reasons: (1) improvements in farm income on account of higher agricultural output, 
despite falls in prices of some products, (2) improvements in non -farm income especially in 
the export -oriented manufacturing and tour ism sectors, (3) household debt deleveraging from 
completion of debt repayment on the first -car scheme that reached the five -year contract 
period, and (4) benefits from the government policies, such as the social welfare card project 
to support low -income individuals, the 9101 project, and flood relief measures5/. Nevertheless, 
employment and income had yet to fully benefit from the overall economic growth, partly due 
to economic structural changes that in effect brought about less reliance  on labor, e.g, 
automation in industries with strong exports growth  and migration of workers from the 
manufacturing sector to the services sector which has lower productivity and lower wages. In 
addition, elevated household debt , especially in low -income households , remain ed a drag on 
consumption going forward. As households would need some time to shore up their financial 
position, private consumption was projected to gradually increase and might not be sufficiently 
broad -based.  
Public spending remained a key growth driver  despite delay in some investment projects.  
 Public spending remained a key growth driver. Both public consumption and 
investment expenditure continued to expand despite delay in central government investment 
projects toward the end of 2017 which were cons trained by limited disbursement efficiency of 
some agencies and heavy rain which affected construction. Investment projects of state -
owned enterprises (SOEs) were mostly on track, although some projects were delayed. These 
included Airport of Thailand Plc  AOT ’s Suvarnabhumi Airport development project phase   
which was under the standard price review, the Mass Rapid Transit Authority  MRT ’s Purple 
Line project (Tao Poon –Rasburana) which resulted in a delayed completion of the terms of 
references, and Ele ctricity Generation Authority of Thailand  EGAT ’s upgrade and expansion 
of the power transmission system phase 12 which had problems over site access. 
Nevertheless, the overall government investment expenditure framework was revised up for 
2018 and the ma jority of the budget was allocated to agencies with high disbursement 
efficiency. Going forward, state -owned enterprise investment would likely trend upward on 
account of the holdover of AOT, MRT, and EGAT’s investment projects from  0 7.      
In addition,  the promulgation of the Public Procurement and Supplies Management 
Act, B.E. 25606/ might result in a delayed disbursement of some state agencies that were not 
accustomed to the new system , such as local administrative organizations, while central 
governm ent agencies which were already accustomed to such system would be less affected 
by the Act.  
 
                                           
5/   The 9101 project is a project for sustainable agricultural development in honor of His Majesty the late King.  
6/ The Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560 was an upgrade of the Regulations of the 
Office of the Prime Minister on Procurement, B.E. 2535 and the Regulations of the Prime Minister on Electronic 
Procurement, B.E. 2549 to be an Act. The Act enforces all state a gencies to come under the same standards in 
order to increase efficiency and transparency of procurement process .  Monetary Policy Report December  2017  22 Private investment was projected to gradually recover.   
       Private investment was projected to recover albeit at a slower pace .  Increased 
imports of capital  goods and reduced excess capacity were observed in several industries in 
tandem with a stronger expansion of private consumption and exports. However, some 
businesses deferred investment due to excess production capacity. Going forward, private 
investment  was projected to expand in line with continued expansion of exports and private 
consumption. This was partly reflected in the number of applications for Board of Investment 
(BOI) investment privileges that was expected to be higher than the previous year7/. Moreover, 
government policies were expected to play an important role in supporting private investment , 
especially public investment in infrastructure projects and development projects under the 
Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC). These measures would help  shore up business confidence 
and attract greater foreign investment (Box: Crowding in of private investment by public 
investment).   
Inflation stabilized at a low level due to supply -side factors but was expected to slowly rise 
going forward.  
 In the recent periods, inflation 
remained stable at a low level close to the 
previous estimate. This was due to a 
gradual expansion of domestic demand 
coupled with a fall in fresh food prices due 
to higher agricultural outputs thanks to 
favorable weather c onditions.  
In the period ahead, inflation was 
projected to slowly edge up as demand -
pull pressures would gradually rise in 
tandem with the stronger growth outlook. 
This was reflected in the closing of the 
output gap in the latter half of 2018 (Chart 2.19) . However, demand -pull pressures would be 
constrained by economic growth that was not yet broad -based and continuous sales 
promotion offered by businesses. Cost -push pressures  were expected to rise at a slower 
pace in 2018 compared with the latter half of 2017 given acceleration in oil prices in the 
previous period. Cost -push pressures were expected to rise in tandem with an increase in 
excise taxes on liquor, beer, tobacco and sugary beverages. However, there remained 
pressures that would cause inflation t o rise at a slower pace. These included fresh food prices 
that were expected to remain low and structural changes following technological 
advancements and higher price competitions. The Committee therefore projected headline 
inflation at 0.7 and 1.1 percen t in 2017 and 2018, respectively. Core inflation was projected at 
0.6 and 0.8 percent in 2017 and 2018, respectively. The Committee assessed that headline 
inflation would return to the mid -point of the target in the first half of 2018.   
 
                                           
7/  The BOI requires promoted companies to begin operations within three years. However, more than 60 percent 
of promoted projects actually u ndertook investments within 1.5 years.    
-4-2024
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Chart 2.19 Output Gap
%Monetary Policy Report December  2017  23 Risks to the grow th and inflation projection were expected to be balance d.   
 Under the Committee’s assessment, the risks to the growth forecast became balanced 
compared with  the downward bias in the previous assessment (Chart 2.20). On the upside, 
there were possibilities  that growth could outperform the baseline projection given a better 
growth outlook of Thailand’s trading partners  on the back of the passage of the U.S. tax reform 
law, additional financial measures to shore up China’s economic growth, and higher -than-
expected export growth of Asian countries. On the downside, there were risks to the baseline 
projection due to uncertainties pertaining to U.S. foreign trade policy and geopolitical risks, 
which might undermine Thailand’s trading partners, and lower -than-expe cted domestic 
spending as improvement in purchasing power was not yet sufficiently broad -based.  
With regard to inflation, the Committee assessed the risks to headline and core inflation 
to be in balance (Charts 2.21 and 2.22).  On the upside, inflation mi ght exceed the baseline 
projection as crude oil prices could rise on the back of continued global economic expansion 
and heightened geopolitical risks, lower -than-expected shale  oil production in the U.S. , and a 
possibility of minimum wage increases in 201 8. On the downside, inflation might fall below the 
baseline projection as demand -pull pressures could be weaker than anticipated as 
improvement in purchasing power was not yet sufficiently broad -based.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.20 Growth forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-404812
-404812
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019% YoY
Chart 2.21 Headline inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-4-202468
-4-202468
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019Headline inflation target 2.5  1.5%% YoY
Chart 2.22 Core inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-2-101234
-2-101234
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019% YoYMonetary Policy Report December  2017  24  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2016* 2017 2018
GDP growth 3.2 3.9 (3.8) 3.9 (3.8)
Domestic demand 2.7 2.4 (3.0) 3.4 (3.5)
     Private consumption 3.1 3.1 (3.3) 3.1 (3.0)
     Private investment 0.4 1.6 (2.3) 2.3 (3.0)
     Government consumption 1.7 1.5 (2.1) 3.2 (2.7)
     Public investment 9.9 0.9 (5.0) 9.0 (9.8)
Exports of goods and services 2.1 6.1 (5.9) 3.7 (3.3)
imports of goods and services -1.4 6.4 (6.5) 3.5 (3.3)
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 48.2 48.6 (42.4) 43.1 (38.6)
Value of merchandise exports 0.1 9.3 (8.0) 4.0 (3.2)
Value of merchandise imports -5.1 14.0 (14.0) 7.5 (6.3)
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 32.5 35.6 (35.6) 37.3 (37.3)
Note: *Outturns
             ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2017Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report December  2017  25  Crowding  in of private investment by public investment  
 Since the global financial crisis in 2008, the Thai economy has been affected by economic 
contraction in major advanced economies. The contraction was particularly seen in  export s and 
was one of the reasons fo r the private investment  slowdown . The government thus stepped in to 
play a role in stimulating the economy in the short run and expediting several large -scale  
investment projects , which would in turn accelerate private investment. Nevertheless, although 
decision to invest  was subject to several factors, such as  economic conditions, business 
competition , and operating costs, a number of studies suggested that public investment, 
especially mega infrastructure projects8/, was one of the key factors having crowding -in 
effects on private investment . Such effects  could occur both directly and indirectly through 
several channels including (1) creation of demand for goods and services, (2) cost reduction and 
increas e in competitiveness through infrastructure development s, (3) business opportunities such 
as development of transportation network s that facilitate d urbanization, and (4) improvement in 
private  sector confidence and investment environment.  
Large -scale public infrastructure investment  helped  crowd ing in private investment.  
 In the past, the Thai government invested in several large -scale public infrastructure 
projects  such as the Eastern Seaboard, Suvarnabhumi Airport, Mass Transit Master Plan 1 and 
Intercity Motorway (Chart 1). Using data over 20 ye ars, econometric analysis9/ revealed  that a one 
percent increase in public investment contributed to a 0.12 –0.13 percen t incr ease in private 
investment on average, with the positive effects persisting for 8 quarters10/ (Chart s 2 and 3).  
Nevertheless, the extent of the increase in private investment depended on types of public 
investment projects. In particular, construction projects exhibited larger positive spillovers than 
investment in machinery and equipment. Moreover, a rise in publi c investment also had positive 
effects on manufacturing, employment, private sector confidence and overall economic growth.11/  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
8/  IMF   0   , “Is it time for an infrastructure push? The macroeconomic effects of public investment”, World 
Economic Outlook , October, chapter 3.  
9/  Based on Error correction model and factor -augmented vector autoregression (FAVAR) .  
10/ Positive effects on private investment as suggested in the  FAVAR model were  statistically significant during the 
first 8 quarters after public investment t ook place. Nonetheless, actual effects might  be smaller because the 
model  using a partial equilibrium approach did  not take into account the impact of public investment on other 
economic variables , such as an increase in prices of construction materials and imported raw materials , which 
could in turn affect private investment.  
11/ As reflected in the impulse responses in the FAVAR model of the Manufacturing Production Index (MPI), 
Business Sentiment Index (BSI), the unemployment rate , and GDP . 
Chart 1 Public investment during 2003 -2017
012345678
 003 00  00  00  007 008 00  0 0 0   0   0 3 0   0   0   0 7General Government SOEs Public Investment
Economic stimulation after the GFC:
Thai Khem Khang Project
Political unrest resulting 
in limited disbursement 
of central governmentEconomic 
stimulation: 
government 
capital 
expenditure
Suvarnabhumi Project% of GDP
Mass Transit Rail Project
Note: Data on public investment calculated from  System of National Accounts (SNA ) 
and adjusted for price and seasonality factors 
Source:  Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board , 
and calculation by Bank of Thailand
0.210.180.15 0.15
0.07 0.050.100.120.09 0.08
0.00.10.2
   8  008      00  000  0 0 00   0   00   0   003  0 3 00   0   00   0   00   0  2007-currentChart  2 Crowding -in effects of public investment on private 
investment vary depending on types and timing of 
investment
0.12
0.060.12
0.090.11
00.050.10.15
Total public 
investmentEquipment 
& MachineryConstruction General 
governmentSOEs
Note: 1/Elasticity calculated from change in private investment to change in public 
investment, where public investment is set to increase by 1 percent over 
1 year  
2/ calculation based on rolling windowsBy period  Elasticity  
Elasticity  By type of public investment
(elasticityError correction modelMonetary Policy Report December  2017  26   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After the global financial crisis in 2008, the crowding -in effects of public investment on private 
investment were smaller than in the past. This was  partly because the government needed  to 
focus on investment in  small - and medium -sized projects for which funds could be quickly 
disbursed in order to stimulate the economy .  
 Following the global financial crisis, the crowding -in effects of public investment on private 
investment in Thailand fell by more than half. According to the study, during 2007 –present, a one 
percent increase in public investment led to a 0.08 percent increase in private investment, which 
was lower than 0.21 percent increase in the previous period during 1998 –2007 (Chart 2).  This 
suggested weaker crowding -in effects of public inv estment on private investment than in 
the past,  though such effects were more prominent during certain periods with large -scale 
investment projects such as the Suvarnabhumi Airport during 2004 –2007  and mass transit projects 
during  2013–2015.  
 Key factors contributing to the smaller crowding -in effects than in the past were as 
follows. First, the government had to stimulate the economy in the short run and therefore 
accelerated investment in small - and medium -sized projects in order to quickly inject 
money into the economy.  Such projects include d the Thai Khem Khang project and loans for 
water resource and road network management projects in 2014. Second, several large -scale 
investment projects, which  were expected to crowd in private investment, were still at their 
initial stages,  especially the transport infrastructure investment a ction plan (priority projects)  
2015–2017. Third,  almost 40 percent of the total government capital expenditure during 
2014 –2017 was spent on improvements of existing projects, pur chases of durable goods or 
equipment, and small -scale investment projects. Crowding -in effects from these expenses 
were smaller than those from large -scale public infrastructure investment projects  (Chart 4).  
 
 
 
Chart  3 Crowding -in effects of public investment on private investment 
and other variables
Note: Impacts of a one percent increase in public investment on private investment and other 
variables, where the dashed and dotted lines represent confidence intervals of 68 and 
90 percent respectivelyPeak Effect = 0.30 (in first period)
Crowding -in Effects (4Q) = 0.17
(8Q) = 0.13Peak Effect = 0.65 (in first period)
Fiscal Multipliers (4Q) = 0.41
(8Q) = 0.22Effects on private investment Effects on GDP
Effects on imports Effects on MPI Effects on unemployment
 Effects on BSIFactor -augmented Vector Autoregression (FAVAR) Monetary Policy Report December  2017  27  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 However, the findings above only reflect ed the average effects  of public investment on 
private investment over recent periods. An in -depth measure ment  of the crowding -in effects would 
thus require analys es on key investment projects , taking into account  linkages with investment s in 
various business es across  different episodes . Some projects might yield higher crowding -in effects 
than the average. Moreover, upcoming public  investment projects would be of different 
characteristics and under different economic contexts from the pas t, especially the upgrading of 
large -scale integrated infrastructure systems such as transportation  system  and public utility , 
particularly in the Eastern Economic Corridor  area. In such case, crowding -in effects of future 
public investment  were then expected to be larger than the above findings.   
The p rivate sector place d emphasis on institutional factors, particularly clarity and continuity  
of government policy , in making investment decisions .  
 According to the Business Sentiment Survey b y the Bank of Thailand during 2012 –2017, 
institutional factors such as clarity and continuity of government policy had substantial 
influences on private sector confidence. Nevertheless, the private sector wanted the 
government to place importance on invest ment  in both physical infrastructure , e.g. , transportation 
system , and soft infrastructure , e.g. , human capital development , to create  labor skills compatible 
with current state of global development or  a more focus on research and innovation development. 
Not only would  such in vestment  help boost confidence and nurture favorable  business 
environment for  the private sector in making investment  decisions , it c ould also help raise 
Thailand’s economic potential in the long er run.  
 In order to increase the crowding -in in the period ahead , the government could consider 
the following. First, a focus on necessary infrastructure investment is required in order to 
create an investment -friendly environment for the private sector in the long run . This 
include s development plans for integrated infrastructure systems. Second, establishing clarity 
and confidence in government policy is crucial, while also pushing forward investments to 
continue as planned . This is particularly the case for the transport infrastructure investment action 
plan (priority projects) , which is the government ’s policy that is of the private sector’s priority and 
whose investment in construction is expected to have a large positive impact on private investment. 
Third, physical inf rastructure and soft infrastructure investment must be simultaneously  
developed,  especially human capital development and innovation. In this way , public investment 
would raise private sector confidence  in making investment decisions. This would help promo te 
sustainable growth of the Thai economy in the long run.  
Chart  4 Over 40 percent of government capital expenditure was 
used for construction, purchases of durable articles, and investment 
in small projects, crowding in only limited private investment
Note: Analysis on budgetary framework based on GFMIS, by project
Sources : Comptroller General’s Department and Bureau of the Budget and 
calculation by Bank of ThailandGovernment capital expenditure for fiscal years 2014 -2017 excluding 
subsidies and central government expenditure
Monetary Policy Report December  2017  28 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
The Committee deliberated their policy decision by considering benefits and costs of policy 
alternatives and voted to maintain the current degree  of monetary policy accommodation.  
In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Thai economy exhibited a stronger growth outlook, 
particularly on the back of external factors. However, there remained issues to be monitored 
including the strength of domestic demand recovery , below -target  headline inflation, and the 
buildup of risks to financial stability in certain pocket s. Therefore, the Committee had to strike 
a balance between promoting sustainable economic growth in order to pursue price stability 
and preserving financial stability. Their conclusions were as follow s. 
1. Pursuing sustainable economic growth through monetary policy accommodation.  
The Thai economy was expected to gain further traction driven by continued improvements in 
merchandise exports and tourism, which were in line with global economic growth and a 
gradual pickup of domestic demand. Private consumption gradually expanded, as p urchasing 
power and consumer confidence slowly improved. This was because earnings  of low -income 
households , both in agricultural and non -agricultural sectors, did not clearly recover, and 
household debt remained elevated. Meanwhile, private investment imp roved as reflected in 
increases in imports of capital goods and domestic sales of machinery across various 
industries. Moreover, investment sentiments picked up given greater clarity of the draft 
Eastern Economic Corridor Act. However, there remained exces s production capacity in some 
industries which might result in a gradual improvement in private investment. Nevertheless, 
the Committee viewed that monetary policy accommodation  partly helped support the 
continuation of economic growth, although positive s pillovers from the economic expansion 
had yet to sufficiently extend to  the labor market and earnings of certain SMEs. This was partly 
attributable to structural factors that monetary policy  alone could not resolve. In addition, the 
Thai economy would have  to face risks from both domestic and external fronts that warranted 
close monitoring.  
2. Return ing of inflation to ward  the target  in the medium term . Headline inflation 
was expected to slowly rise in tandem with domestic demand recovery. This was reflect ed in 
inflation indicators that continued to gradually trend up (Chart 3.1). Headline inflation was 
projected to return to the lower bound of the target within the first half of 2018. Moreover, the 
Committee viewed that public’s long -term inflation expectations that somewhat trended down 
in recent periods did not reflect deflation risks. This was because inflation was still expected 
to rise, while prices of most goods and services in the recent period did not decrease (Chart 3.2) . 
In addition, consumption and investment still expanded. However, there were still risks  that 
inflation m ight return to target slower than projected due to  lower -than-expected economic 
growth, uncertainties pertaining to global oil prices, and impact s of structural changes such as 
intensified price competition following globalization and e -commerce. Thus, the  Committee 
saw the need to closely monitor and assess changes in inflation dynamics caused by structural 
factors , as a slower increase in inflation than in the past would significantly impact the pace of 
the return of inflation to target and the monetary p olicy conduct going forward.  Monetary Policy Report December  2017  29  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
3. Monitoring the  buildup of risks to financial stability . The Committee viewed that 
although financial stability remained sound, but a prolonged low interest rate environment 
might result in the buildup of vulnerabilities to financial stability in the future. Such 
vulnerabilities included, in particular, a cont inued search -for-yield behavior which could 
lead to underpricing of risks.  This was reflected in a considerably low volatility in the 
financial markets. However, if situations did not turn out as expected, market adjustment 
might increase asset price  volat ilities . Thus, the Committee would continue to closely monitor 
developments of significant risks such as the continued expansion of foreign investment 
funds (FIFs) that was concentrated in only a few countries, although these funds invested in 
countries wi th investment -grade credit ratings. Other risks included a substantial increase  in 
asset size and members’ deposits in some saving cooperatives whose excess liquidity was 
invested in risky assets especially when deposit growth outpaced loan  growth , as well  as 
investment in non -core businesses by large corporates. Another vulnerability was debt 
serviceability of households and SMEs that had yet to improve  as observed in NPLs that 
remained elevated. Such situation might weigh on their abilities to cushion aga inst economic 
shocks  going forward. Nevertheless, the Committee acknowledged that certain risks could 
stem from regulatory gaps , and the  Committee would thus collaborate between  related 
regulatory authorities in order to undertake tighter measures and stan d ready to implement 
macroprudential measures in an appropriate and timely manner.  
The Committee voted unanimously to keep the policy interest rate at 1.5 percent to 
maintain accommodative financial conditions in order to support a stronger economic growth 
and foster the return of inflation to target, without causing  the buildup of vulnerabilities to 
financial stability.  
The Committee considered benefits and costs of policy alternatives and voted 
unanimously to maintain the policy interest rate at 1.50 percent at the meetings on 8 
November 2017 and 20 December 2017 . The Committee saw the need to keep monetary 
policy accommodative for an extended period in order to support a stronger economic growth 
and viewed that current level of policy interest ra te at 1.50 percent was conducive to 
-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulCore inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.05, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.19, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.09, 0.11)Underlying inflation indicatorsChart 3.1 Underlying inflation indicators pointed to higher inflation
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of November 2017, while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
and calculation by Bank of Thailand
0%10%20%30%40%50%60%70%80%90%100%
Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017
   0   0    8   8                             00 0          88  0  0Chart 3.2  Most prices did not fall, with prices of certain goods 
revised upward
Note: Percent change  from the previous month, and annually adjusted 
(mom%, annualized)
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of Thailand. Percent of CPIContribution to CPI classified by percentage changes of each product  Monetary Policy Report December  2017  30 accommodative financial conditions as reflected in a low real policy rate. Moreover, the 
Committee communicated the need to maintain monetary policy accommodation for an 
extended period, as it partly helped keep borrowin g costs low as seen in bond yields and 
interest rates charged on new loans that trended down to low levels. With regard to exchange 
rates in recent periods, the baht appreciated in line with improved economic fundamentals and 
was moderate relative to other  regional currencies. Such appreciation did not significantly 
affect competitiveness of Thai exporters. However, the baht ’s movements  would likely be 
volatile due to  uncertainties on the external front such as the conduct of monetary and fiscal 
policies of  major advanced economies and geopolitical risks. The Committee would thus 
continue to closely monitor developments in the foreign exchange market as well as  
speculative behavior of foreign investors that might affect the baht going forward.  
Moreover, the  Committee viewed that further monetary policy accommodation would 
yield low benefit s relative to  costs, as the effect in boosting a faster return of headline inflation 
to target would be limited. This was because  the recent lower -than-target  inflation was  due to 
supply -side and structural factors that could not be resolved directly through monetary policy. 
On the contrary, further monetary policy accommodation  might reduce interests on savings 
and accelerate the buildup of vulnerabilities to financial stab ility by way of  underpricing of risks 
and debt accumulation of households. These could in turn affect economic activities.  
Looking ahead, the Committee viewed that the degree of current monetary policy 
accommodation should be maintained for an extended pe riod in order to support a 
stronger economic growth which could foster a gradual return of headline inflation to 
target in the medium term. The Committee would closely follow developments and assess 
the impact of structural factors on inflation dynamics. I n addition, the Committee would stand 
ready to utilize available policy tools to foster the return of inflation to target in a timely manner, 
as well as to foster the economy to reach its full potential while also preserving financial 
stability. At the sam e time, the Committee emphasized the need to develop monitoring 
processes and assessment of risks to financial stability which could be used in the monetary 
policy decision -making process  going forward.  
The Cabinet approved an annual average of headline in flation at 2.5 ± 1.5 percent as 
monetary policy target for the medium  term and for 2018.  
      On 29 November 2017, the Committee and the Minister of Finance mutually agreed to 
set an annual average of headline inflation at 2.5 ± 1.5 percent as the monetary policy target 
for medium  term and for 2018. The Cabinet approved the proposed target on 19 December 
2017 and viewed that inflation at that level was conducive to the economy to grow in line with 
potential and would also help maintain competitivene ss of the country. Moreover, the tolerance 
band was appropriate in providing cushion against volatilities that could possibly cause 
inflation to deviate from the midpoint of the target in the short term. However, given structural 
changes of both global and  Thai economies which would affect inflation dynamics and the 
inflation outlook in the period ahead, the Committee would closely monitor developments of 
those changes and of other factors to ensure that the monetary policy target and monetary 
policy formul ation  would be more appropriate and effective going forward.  
 
 Monetary Policy Report December  2017  31 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
2.9 3.23.2 3.0 3.3 3.8 4.3
Production
-5.7 0.6 0.9 3.0 5.7 16.1 9.9
3.9 3.5 3.2 3.2 3.1 2.8 3.8
Manufacturing 1.5 1.4 1.6 2.2 1.3 1.1 4.3
Construction 17.0 8.3 5.2 6.1 2.8 -6.2 -1.7
Wholesales and retail trade 3.9 5.0 5.2 5.6 5.9 6.0 6.4
Hotels and restaurants 14.6 10.3 13.5 4.9 5.3 7.5 6.7
Transport, storage, and communication 5.1 5.6 6.5 5.2 5.4 8.7 8.1
Financial intermediation 8.8 6.1 5.8 6.7 4.6 5.1 4.8
Real estate, renting, and business activities 1.9 1.8 1.1 1.9 4.0 4.4 4.2
Domestic demand 2.9 2.7 0.9 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.6
Private consumption 2.2 3.1 3.0 2.5 3.2 3.0 3.1
Private investment -2.2 0.4 -0.8 -0.4 -1.1 3.2 2.9
Government consumption 3.0 1.7 -5.2 1.8 0.3 2.6 2.8
Public investment 29.3 9.9 5.8 8.6 9.7 -7.0 -2.6
Imports of goods and services 0.0 -1.4 -1.1 3.4 6.1 8.2 6.7
imports of goods 0.2 -2.1 -1.5 3.6 7.3 9.1 8.3
imports of services -1.0 1.7 0.5 2.0 1.1 4.2 -0.5
Exports of goods and services 0.7 2.1 1.4 1.1 2.7 6.0 7.4
exports of goods -3.4 0.0 -0.4 1.4 2.6 5.2 8.1
exports of services 17.1 9.3 7.7 0.4 3.2 8.9 4.9
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars) 26.8 36.5 9.2 7.1 8.8 6.4 10.1
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 32.1 48.2 11.7 10.8 15.0 7.4 13.7
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars) -16.8 -21.0 -7.8 -12.1 -7.0 -4.1 1.0
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars) 156.5 171.9 180.5 171.9 180.9 185.6 199.3
Unemployment rate (%) 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.2
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%) n.a. n.a. 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.2
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of Thailand2017 2016
ExpenditurePercent 2015 2016
GDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agricultureMonetary Policy Report December  2017  32  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Financial Stability Dashboard
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
1. Financial market sector
1.1 0.6 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,288.0 1,542.9 1,542.9 1,575.1 1,574.7 1,673.2 1,721.4 1,697.4
Actual volatility of SET index1/13.9 15.2 15.2 7.0 4.8 5.8 9.3 8.5
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 22.6 18.6 18.6 17.4 16.3 17.9 18.6 18.3
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/5.1 4.4 5.0 3.5 3.9 2.9 3.0 2.6
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 108.5 106.2 107.0 108.7 109.8 111.2 112.0 113.1
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 104.4 100.6 101.1 102.1 102.7 104.0 105.0 n.a.
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR)4/6.50 6.26 6.26 6.26 6.20 6.20 6.20 6.20
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.40 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 17.4 18.0 18.0 17.8 17.9 18.4 n.a. n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 192.3 199.2 47.4 51.2 49.0 46.5 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.0 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 97.0 96.3 96.3 95.7 96.5 96.4 n.a. n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 81.2 79.9 79.9 78.7 78.4 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.7 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 2.4 2.9 2.9 3.2 3.1 3.3 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 2.3 1.8 1.8 1.6 1.7 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 4.0 3.7 3.7 3.8 3.2 2.6 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.6 2.7 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 7.4 8.3 7.7 8.5 7.5 8.6 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 5.7 6.6 6.8 6.2 6.2 6.6 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.7 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.6 1.8 1.7 n.a. n.a.
SMEs 3.5 4.3 4.3 4.5 4.4 4.6 n.a. n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 4 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisions2017
Bond market
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Indicators 2015 2016Monetary Policy Report December  2017  33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 59,667                 61,452     16205 12244 15,086     16,992     3,915        n.a.
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 13,152                 13,409     3179 2802 3,544        3,768        701            n.a.
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 19,210                 20,187     4967 4315 4,947        5,630        1,190        n.a.
 Condominiums 27,305                 27,856     8059 5127 6,595        7,594        2,024        n.a.
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 107,988              110,575   31,452     25,304     25,529     34,369     2,211        n.a.
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 17,637                 19,433     4,973        2,054        2,413        4,432        -             n.a.
Townhouses and commercial buildings 27,518                 32,792     7,861        10,413     7,102        9,155        257            n.a.
Condominiums 62,833                 58,350     18,618     12,837     16,014     20,782     1,954        n.a.
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 129.3 128.8 128.8 128.6 129.6 131.6 131.2 n.a.
Townhouses (including land) 137.5 135.6 135.6 138.3 140.0 142.6 142.6 n.a.
Condominiums 160.9 173.6 173.6 169.8 168.8 169.8 170.8 n.a.
Land 168.8 171.3 171.3 171.3 164.2 172.9 173.3 n.a.
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%) 43.9 41.2 41.2 42.2 41.8 42.4 41.8 n.a.
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%)6/8.1 11.9 10.3 13.9 6.8 12.0 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)7/32.0 32.7 32.7 33.5 34.3 36.0 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 131.1 132.2 132.2 136.2 140.5 148.9 145.5 n.a.
Short-term (%) 40.1 41.2 41.2 40.5 39.5 41.4 39.7 n.a.
Long-term (%) 59.9 58.8 58.8 59.5 60.5 58.6 60.3 n.a.
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 3.0 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.2 3.5 n.a.
Note:
6/ Current account / Nominal GDP at the same quarter
7/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDPIndicators 2015 20162017Monetary Policy Report December  2017  34  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
2017 2019
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 9 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 3
8-9 0 0 1 2 2 3 3 4
7-8 1 2 3 4 5 5 6 6
6-7 6 8 7 8 9 9 9 9
5-6 22 18 14 13 13 13 13 12
4-5 36 26 20 18 17 16 15 14
3-4 26 24 22 19 17 16 15 14
2-3 8 15 17 16 15 14 13 13
1-2 1 6 10 11 10 10 10 10
0-1 0 1 4 6 6 6 7 7
(-1)-0 0 0 1 3 3 3 4 4
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2
(-3)-(-2) 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1
< (-3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1Percent2018
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
2017
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 4.0 0 0 2 5 3 6 6 7
3.5-4.0 0 0 3 4 3 5 4 5
3.0-3.5 0 0 6 6 5 6 6 6
2.5-3.0 1 2 9 8 7 9 8 8
2.0-2.5 3 5 13 11 9 10 10 10
1.5-2.0 12 10 15 12 11 11 11 11
1.0-1.5 25 16 15 12 12 12 11 11
0.5-1.0 30 20 13 11 12 11 11 10
0.0-0.5 19 19 10 10 11 9 9 9
(-0.5)-0.0 7 14 7 8 9 7 8 7
(-1.0)-(0.5) 2 8 4 5 7 5 6 6
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 4 2 3 5 4 4 4
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 1 1 2 3 2 2 3
< -2.0 0 0 0 2 4 2 3 3Percent2018 2019Monetary Policy Report December  2017  35  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
2017
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 3
2.0-2.5 0 0 2 4 4 6 7 8
1.5-2.0 0 2 9 12 12 14 15 16
1.0-1.5 8 19 26 23 22 23 23 22
0.5-1.0 57 44 34 28 26 25 23 22
0.0-0.5 33 29 22 20 20 18 17 16
(-0.5)-0.0 1 5 7 9 10 9 8 8
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 0 1 3 3 3 3 3
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
< -2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2018 2019Monetary Policy Report December  2017  36 4.2 Data pack  
 
The Global Economy  
Thailand’s trading partners economies continued to expand and remained a key drive r of Thai 
exports  going forward . However, a gradual increase of inflation allowed most central banks to 
maintain their accommodative monetary policy  stance . Meanwhile, some central banks raise d 
their policy rates such as the Bank of England and the Bank of Korea   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
4550556065
 0   0   0   0 7Euro area Japan U.S.Diffusion index
Source: BloombergManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
China’s economic indicators
(change from same period last year)
Source: CEIC0102030
 0 3  0   0   0   0 7Retail sales Manufacturing
Total investment Investment in manufacturing (32%)
Investment in real estate (23%) Investment in structure (9%)
Percent
Note: ( ) denotes share to total investment
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
 0 3  0   0   0   0 7Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
Philippines ThailandAsian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
 0 0 0   0   0 3 0   0   0   0 7United States Euro Area Japan China Asia*PercentInflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note: * Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, 
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report December  2017  37 The Thai economy  
Thailand’s economic growth gained further traction on the back of  strong growth in 
merchandise exports  and tourism as well as a continued domestic demand expansion.  Public  
spending remained a key economic driver despite some contraction in public investment 
following prior acceleration in  disbursement by state -owned enterprises .  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
-10-5051015
Q1
2015Q2Q3 Q4Q1
2016Q2Q3Q4 Q1
2017Q2Q3Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/ 
Note : 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM )
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board 
and calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price, and quantity
(seasonally adjusted 3 -month moving average, January 2013 = 100)
859095100105
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulValue Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
and calculation by Bank of Thailand
050100150200250300
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulAsia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaForeign tourists classified by nationality  
(seasonally adjusted 3-month moving average , January 2014 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of Tourism
6090120150180
Oct Jan April JulThousandsFY2016 FY2017 FY2018
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulPublic spending by central government
Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
Billion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy OfficeMonetary Policy Report December  2017  38 Inflation  
Headline inflation edged up mainly due to energy prices, while core inflation slightly increased 
on account of an excise tax  increase . Meanwhile, five-year-ahead inflation expectations of 
professional forecasters declined.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of November 2017, while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.Underlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
and calculation by Bank of Thailand-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2013Jul Jan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017JulCore inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.05, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.19, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.09, 0.11)
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflationContribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, and calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent
Oct-Nov 
2017
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
and calculation by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Oct-Nov 
2017
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Sources:1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
with bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Monetary Policy Report December  2017  39 Financial conditions  
Short -term money market rates stayed low while long -term government bond yields rose 
due to  both supply -side and external factor s. Total corporate financing  continued to expand. 
The Thai baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar  due to external uncertainties in line with 
regional currencies. Meanwhile, the Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) strengthened 
somewhat consistent  with improvements in economic fun damentals . 
    
Thai government bond yields
2016 20171.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Ypercent
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)
Total corporate financing by instrument*
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Billion baht
Note: *Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bonds excluding commercial banks, and 
newly issued equities.-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2016Mar May Jul Sep Nov Jan
2017Mar May Jul SepCredit Bond Equity
32
33
34
35
36
37 9095100105110115
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul OctUSDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 19 December 2017 )DXYBaht per U.S. dollar IndexThai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), 
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER), Dollar Index (DXY)
2015 2016 2017
-3%-2%-1%0%1%2%3%4%5%6%
AUD
IDR
JPY
GBP
EUR
CNY
SGD
PHP
TWD
INR
THB
MYR
KRW
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 19 Dec 2017 )Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollarCurrency movements vis -a-vis U.S. dollar
(19 Dec 2017 compared to 30 Sep 17)Monetary Policy Report December  2017  40 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-earning  (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand stayed close to the 
historical average. The P/E ratio of the Market for Alternative Investment (mai) remained high 
due to declining business  performance in the third quarter of 2017, especially in agriculture, 
trade and services sectors . New issuance of unrated bonds continued to decline since the end 
of 2016 after some defaults. As a result, the ratio of unrated bonds to total corporate bond s 
outstanding continued to fall.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Stability: household sector  
Household debt remained high, although the  ratio of household debt to GDP  continued to 
decline . Deleveraging remained concentrated among the high-income group, reflecting a  
recovery of the economy  that was not yet broad -based . However, deterioration in debt 
serviceability of households warranted close monitoring  going forward.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand (as of November 2017 )Current price -to-earning ratio and turnover ratio  of 
SET and mai
020406080100120
020406080100
Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17 Jul-17SET turnover ratio mai turnover ratio
SET P/E ratio (RHS) mai P/E ratio (RHS) Percent times
Average P/E of mai ( 2012 -2016 )
Average P/E of SET ( 2012 -2016 )
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Corporate bonds outstanding
9 91966117127 128 
89
79 
66
050100150
01,0002,0003,000
 0  
 0  
 0 3
 0  
 0  
 0  
2017/Q1
2017/Q2
2017/Q3
2017/ NovUnrated
Non-investment grade
B group
A group
Number of companies issuing unrated bond  (RHS)Billion baht
(3.3%)
(1.4%)
(0.6%)
(0.4%)
(1.4%)Number of companies 
issuing unrated bonds
(4.6%) (4.0%) (3.2%) (2.6%)(2.4%)
Note: ( ) represents percent of unrated bonds in total corporate bonds
505560657075808590
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017Percent of GDP2/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
Source : Bank of Thailand78.4Household debt1/
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans (NPL) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
Percent
2.73.3
1.62.8
2.7
0.01.02.03.04.05.06.0
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
 0   0   0 3  0   0   0   0 7Consumer (Total) Home Car Credit card PersonalMonetary Policy Report December  2017  41 Stability: corporate sector  
Overall stability of the corporate sector remained sound. Profitability and debt serviceability 
improved in line with economic conditions. However, the share of non -performing loans in total 
loans (NPL) of small businesses continued to increase . 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand and calculation by Bank of Thailand8.6
6.4
456789
Q1 
2014Q2 
2014Q3 
2014Q4 
2014Q1 
2015Q2 
2015Q3 
2015Q4 
2015Q1 
2016Q2 
2016Q3 
2016Q4 
2016Q1 
2017Q2 
2017Q3 
2017Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Percent
Note: *Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.Operating profit margin (OPM) and return on assets (ROA)*
-10-8-6-4-2024
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Smallest (Quintile 1) Small (Quintile 2)
Medium (Quintile 3) Large (Quintile 4)
Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand and calculation by 
Bank of ThailandInterest coverage ratioDebt serviceability at 25th percentile classified by 
firm size
-5.0-3.0-1.01.03.05.07.09.011.0
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Commerce Production
(exc.petro)Construction Real Estate Utilities Services OverallPercentile 25 Percentile 50 TrendInterest c overage ratio classified by sector 
Note: * production exclude Petroleum and chemicals
Source : Stock Exchange of Thailand and calculation by Bank of Thailand
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)3.1
1.74.6
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Total corporate loan large corporate loan SME loan
Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
Q3
2.5
2.13.0
0123
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Q3Monetary Policy Report December  2017  42 Stability: real estate sector  
The real estate sector overall slowed down from the previous quarter, partly due to lowered  
demand and supply from temporary factor s in October 2016. Meanwhile, residential property 
prices remained broadly stable.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
28 61 
5.2
0246810
020406080100
 0  
 0  
 0  
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17
Low-rise Condominium TotalResidential units in Bangkok and vicinity  
Thousand units
Source: Bank of ThailandThousand units, 3 -month moving average 
and seasonally adjusted
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Average* 5,422
Note: *Average during 2010 -2016, excluding periods with 
government’s stimulus measures  November 2015 -April 2016)
52 58 10
02468101214
020406080100120
 0  
 0  
 0  
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17Low-rise Condominium TotalNew residential projects launched in Bangkok and vicinity
Thousand units Thousand unitsYearly Monthly (RHS)
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA ) and 
calculation by Bank of Thailand
Condominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinity and ‘time to go’
Thousand units Months
Note: ‘Time to go’ is the time taken for all real estate inventory to be sold, 
using the average sales rate over the past 12 months.
Source: AREA and calculation by Bank of Thailand76
15
020406080
020406080
 007
 008
 00 
 0 0
 0  
 0  
 0 3
 0  
 0  
 0  
2017H1Condominium inventory
Time to go (RHS)
131.2142.6170.8173.3
100110120130140150160170180190
2013Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2014Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2015Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2016Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2017Q1
Q2
Q3
Oct 2017Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate prices
Index (2009=100)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  43 Stability : financial institutions  
Credit growth  and the NPL ratio in the third quarter remained  close to the previous quarter , 
while  credit quality of SMEs and mortgage loans warranted monitoring. Nonetheless, the 
financial system remained sound with high levels of provisions and capital buffers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    
 
 
  
 
Commercial bank credit growth
13.97.0
13.2
2.7
10.33.3 3.314.3
3.1 2.415.7
4.5 5.6
-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumer4.2
2.2Q2 Q3%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand
Non-performing loans (NPL)
2.652.952.97
1.941.811.693.984.42 4.63
2.07 2.662.74
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Total NPL (%) Large corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%)%
Source: Bank of Thailand
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
32354444
150.4160.0166.2
100120140160180
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
20170102030405060
Loan loss provisions (RHS) Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
16.317.918.4
11.815.215.8
4.5
2.72.7
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December  2017  44 Stability: External position  
Thailand’s external stability r emained strong due to a  lower level of external debt than an 
international benchmark , with international reserves at a high level relative to short -term debt.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP stayed below the sustainability 
threshold.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
050100150200250300
0102030405060
 00 
 0 0
 0  
 0  
 0 3
 0  
 0  
2016Q1
2016Q2
2016Q3
2016Q4
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3Long-term debt
Short-term debt
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48%
Billion U.S. dollar Percent
Source: Bank of ThailandRatio of international reserves to short -term debt
012345
 00 
 00 
 007
 008
 00 
 0 0
 0  
 0  
 0 3
 0  
 0  
 0  
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
Oct-17Oct2017 = 3.5
43.4 43.941.2 42.2 41.8 42.4 41.8
0102030405060
 0  
 0  
 0  
Q1-17
Q2-17
Q3-17
Oct-17
Other government agencies  FIDF
Financial state-owned enterprises Non-financial state-owned enterprises
Advance borrowing for debt restructuring FIDF compensation
Public government’s direct borrowing Public debt to GDPPercent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability ( 60%)Ratio of public debt to GDP
External
4.7%
Domestic
95.3%Outstanding debt as of October 2017
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from 
remaining duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
10.6%
Long -term 
89.4% 
