 
Monetary Policy Report  March  2018 
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
March  2018 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Porametee Vimolsiri  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Kanit Sangsubhan  Member  
Mr. Subhak Siwaraksa  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  March  2018 
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 8. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardizing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reas ons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as t he policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report March  2018  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  5 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions for trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Oil prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ............................  10 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ........................  10 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ........  17 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
BOX : Assessing private consumption recovery  
3. Monetary Policy  Decision  ................................ ................................ .................  27 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  31 
4.1 Table s ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  31 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Data  Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  36 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   Monetary Policy Report March  2018  1 Executive Summary  
Monetary Policy Conduct in the First Quarter of 2018  
The Committee assessed that the Thai economy continued to gain further traction, driven by improved growth in 
exports and tourism in tandem with the globa l economy and domestic demand. In addition, private consumption 
would continue to gradually increase. Headline inflation would trend up albeit at a slightly slower pace than 
previously assessed due to large supply of meat, vegetables, and fruits in the mar ket which led to a decline in 
prices. The increase in the buildup of risks to financial stability from a prolonged low interest rate environment in 
certain pockets still warranted close monitoring. Against this backdrop, the Committee had to weigh various 
factors in formulating the most appropriate course of monetary policy in order to attain the objectives of 
sustainable economic growth and price stability while preserving financial stability. The Committee voted 
unanimously and later 6 to 1 to keep the po licy rate unchanged at 1.50 percent at the meetings on February 
14 and March 28, 2018 respectively.  In deliberating their decision, the Committee judged that accommodative 
monetary policy stance would still be necessary to support a more robust growth in d omestic demand which would 
foster the return of headline inflation to target. Moreover, the Committee viewed that the policy rate at 1.50 percent 
remained appropriate in that it would facilitate sufficiently accom modative financial conditions, as reflected  in low 
real interest rates and continued improvements in private sector financing through commercial banks and financial 
markets. One committee voted to raise the policy rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.75 percent at the meeting on 
March 28, 2018 as the  unusually low interest rates for a prolonged period might prompt households and 
businesses to underestimate risks to potential changes in financial conditions in the future. Furthermore, a gradual, 
timely reduction in monetary policy accommodation would n ot hinder economic growth or price stability. It would 
instead help alleviate risks to financial stability in the future and facilitate a smooth process of monetary policy 
normalization.  
Looking ahead, the Committee deemed that monetary policy accommodati on should be maintained for 
some time to support a more robust economic growth and foster the gradual return of headline inflation 
toward the medium -term target.  The Committee would stand ready to utilize available policy tools to facilitate 
the return of headline inflation to target in an appropriate time, while seeking to achieve sustainable economic 
growth and maintaining financial stability.  
Assessment s of the Economic and Inflation  Outlooks as the Basis for Policy Formulation  
1. Global E conomy  
The global economy was projected to continue expanding and remained a driver of Thai exports in the 
period ahead.  Advanced economies would expand further due mainly to consumption and exports. Moreover, 
the U.S. would exhibit a higher growth than previously ex pected on account of the U.S. tax reform policy, a strong 
labor market, and improved consumer confidence. The euro area would also record a stronger growth than the 
previous assessment on the back of exports and domestic demand. In ad dition, accommodative financial 
conditions, improved private sector confidence, and a gradual recovery in the labor market conditions would 
continue to support growth going forward. Japan would see growth across all economic sectors with private 
consumptio n expected to rise from robust consumer confidence and improved labor market conditions. The 
Chinese economy was expected to gain further traction despite some slowdown, consistent with its economic 
growth target for 2018 and the government’s economic refo rms. Meanwhile, other Asian economies would 
continue expanding following robust growth in exports across various product categories which would underpin 
employment and household consumption in the period ahead. The Committee therefore revised up the growth  
forecast for Thailand’s trading partners from 3.5 percent to 3.7 percent in 2018.  However, there remained 
certain risks that warranted monitoring including (1) an increase in import tariffs by the U.S. which might lead to 
retaliatory measures by major eco nomies which could cause a dir ect impact on trade volume and an indirect 
impact on prices as well as productions in global supply chains, (2) uncertainties surrounding other U.S. economic 
policies such as infrastructure investment policy, and (3) geopoliti cal risks that could intensify and undermine the 
economy and financial markets.  Monetary Policy Report March  2018  2 Most central banks maintained accommodative monetary policy stance. Nonetheless, some central banks 
gradually reduced the degree of monetary policy accommodation following imp rovements in economic 
and inflation outlooks.  The Federal Reserv e (Fed) raised its policy rate in March 2018 as the market expected, 
while the European Central Bank (ECB) adjusted its forward guidance, reflecting the possibility of a sooner -than-
expected r eduction in the degree of monetary policy accommodation in the future. Moreover, a number of central 
banks in Asia started to signal a monetary policy normalization in the period ahead given improved economic 
growth and a slow rise in inflation.  
2. Financ ial Conditions and Financial S tability  
Financial conditions remained accommodative.  The market correction which resulted in lower asset prices in 
the global financial market did not have a significant effect on Thailand’s financial markets. Short -term bon d yields 
remained below the policy rate due to a decreased supply of short -term bonds and an increased demand from 
foreign investors. Medium - and lon g-term bond yields declined at the beginning of the year owing to higher demand 
from both Thai and fo reign investors. Subsequently, the yields gradually edged up in line with U.S. government 
bond yields, albeit remaining low due to following reasons. First, net supply of Thai government bonds was low as 
a number of bonds reached their maturities during the firs t quarter of the year. Second, Thai government bond 
yields were more attractive relative to other regional countries and thus continued to attract foreign investors into 
Thai bond markets. Third, Thailand’s inflation expectations remained low. Meanwhile, i nterest rates on new loans 
(NLR) remained at low levels, reflecting accommodative financial conditions. Overall private credit expanded on 
the back of both corporate and household sectors. In particular, SME loan growth improved across various sectors, 
reflecting a more broad -based economic recovery. Furthermore, business financing through bond and equity 
markets continued to increase. Meanwhile, household loans expanded in all categories, particularly auto leasing. 
With regard to exchange rates, the baht a ppreciated against the U.S. dollar from the previous quarter due to the 
weakening of the U.S. dollar. Such appreciation was in line with movements of most regional currencies, but the 
pace of appreciation varied dependin g on country -specific factors. The r eal effective exchange rate (REER) 
somewhat appreciated consistent with improving economic fundamentals.  
Financial stability remained sound but there remained pockets of risks that warranted monitoring.  These 
included, first, some sign of accelerating hou sehold debt while debt serviceability of some households continued 
to deteriorate. Second, some SMEs which continued to incur losses would see deterioration in their abilities to 
service debt and cushion against economic volatilities. Third, the search -for-yield behavior persisted given a 
prolonged low interest rate environment which could lead to underpricing of risks. Such behaviour included, for 
instance, a large expansion of foreign investment funds (FIF) with high concentration in some countries. Moreo ver, 
assets and deposits surged among savings cooperatives despite some slowdown after the revised regulations to 
upgrade s upervision practices. Fourth, there was also an oversupply of property in certain price ranges and areas. 
This was particularly the c ase for condominiums with price below three million baht whose supply continued to rise.   
3. Economic and inflation outlook  
The Thai economy was projected to continue expanding and record 4.1 percent growth in 2018 and 2019, 
higher than previously estimated in the previous Monetary Policy Report. The upward revision was on account of 
a continued improvement in merchandise exports and tourism, thanks to robust growth of trading partners and a 
gradual expansion in private spending, which would be part ly supported by government measures aimed at 
improving the well -being of low -income households.  
Merchandise exports continued to expand across various product categories and almost all export 
destinations.  The value of merchandise exports in 2018 was r evised to grow by 7.0 percent, up from 4.0 percent 
assessed in the previous quarter, in tandem with economic expansion of trading partners. Such improvement was 
observed particularly among expor ts of electronics, auto parts, and processed agricultural products . Electronics 
exports would see growth especially in electronic components related to the Internet of Things (IoT) and electronic 
parts used in automobile. Nonetheless, the increase in import tariffs by the U.S. was expected to have a limited 
impact on Tha i exports in the short term as only a small share of Thai products in total Thai exports would be 
subject to these new tariffs. However, downside risks to export growth increased as retaliatory measures could 
impact major trading partners’ growth, especial ly through supply chains, thereby weighing on international trade 
and Thai exports in the period ahead. Moreover, export prices, especially for commodities and oil -related products, Monetary Policy Report March  2018  3 would likely trend up in line with oil prices. Meanwhile, import value wou ld also rise following increased demand 
for raw materials and intermediate goods consistent with the improved growth and higher oil prices.  
Exports of services in 2018 were expected to expand in line with continued improvement in tourism.  The 
projection o f the number of foreign tourists was revised up to 37.6 million in 2018, up from the previous forecast of 
37.3 million. The upgrade was on account of a steady growth in the number of Chinese tourists, both group and 
independent tourists. In addition, India n tourists would likely increase in the period ahead after the Indian authority 
granted Thai airlines additional capacity entitlements under bilateral air services agreements since March 2018. 
However, Thailand st ill faced capacity constraints in accommoda ting the rising number of tourists in the main 
airport, although such constraints were somewhat lessened in recent periods with increasing roles of local airports 
operated by the Department of Airports and the Ministry of Defense, especially Krabi, Suratth ani, and U -tapao 
Airports, in facilitating international flights.  
Private consumption would gradually expand in the period ahead, supported by income among non -
agricultural households with medium -to-high income. In addition, signs of improvement in earnin gs of low -income 
households began to be observed as employment picked up in export -related businesses and the tourism sector. 
On the other hand, household income in some agricultural sectors was projected to slow down in line with 
agricultural prices. Neve rtheless, overall household purchasing power gradually improved. This was partly a result 
of structural changes in the labor market such as adoption of automation in place of human labor in the production 
process as well as a decline in agricultural prices  which made farming unattractive. Hence, these led to greater 
migration of workers out of the manufacturing and agricultural sectors to the services sector. Nevertheless, some 
workers might earn less as they migrated to certain parts of the services sector  with relatively lower wages. 
Moreover, elevated household debt underlined the fact that workers still needed to earmark part of their income 
for debt repayment. Nonetheless, government measures aimed at improving the well -being of the low -income 
household s—such as the social welfare card project (second phase) and the community enterprise development 
project—would partly help raise private consumption in the period ahead.  
Public spending remained a driver of economic growth on the back of expansion in publ ic consumption and 
investment. However, public expenditure was lower than previously estimated because the impact from the Public 
Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560 on government disbursement was larger and longer than 
expected. In particul ar, disbursement by certain state agencies, especially local governments, was significantly 
affected, where those agencies would need some times to adjust. Meanwhile, most investment projects of state -
owned enterpris es (SOEs) were not affected by the new l aw, but some projects were postponed due to delays in 
contract signing and problems in accessing construction sites.  
Private investment would continue to improve,  consistent with growth of exports and private consumption. 
Such improvement was partly reflected by a rising demand for business credits and accelerated value of 
investment application submitted to the Board of Investment at the end of 2017. Moreover, inv estment incentives 
offered by the government would play an important role in driving private investment, particularly through public -
private partnership, government infrastructure investment projects, and the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) 
initiative whos e prospects b ecame more certain. Therefore, this would help promote business confidence and also 
attract foreign investment.  
Headline inflation remained low due to supply -side factors but was expected to slowly rise.  In recent 
periods, headline inflation stabilized at a lower level than previously estimated. This was owing to a contraction in 
fresh food prices following declined prices of meat, vegetables and fruits, stemming from a large supply in the 
market. Going forward, headline inflation would slowly  rise as cost -push inflationary pressures increased at a 
slower pace given that fresh food prices were projected to remain low, while the impact from minimum wages 
increases in 2018 on inflation was largely limited. Moreover, demand -pull inflationary press ures remained close to 
the previous estimate. The Committee therefore projected headline inflation to average 1.0 and 1.2 percent 
in 2018 and 2019 respectively, while core inflation was projected to average 0.7 and 0.8 percent in 2018 
and 2019 respectively .  
Risks to the growth projection were expected to tilt to the downside.  The Thai economy would face greater 
risks from the U.S. foreign trade policy and retaliatory measures from major economies. As a result, this might Monetary Policy Report March  2018  4 weigh on trading partners’ growth t o a larger extent than previously assessed, despite some improvements in 
geopolitical risks related to the Korean Peninsula. Moreover, domestic risks included a larger -than-expected 
impact from the Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act on public e xpenditure, and a lower -than-
expected domestic spending as improvement in purchasing power was not yet sufficiently broad -based. However, 
on the upside, there were possibilities that the growth outturn might be higher than the baseline projection given a 
better-than-expected growth outlook of Thailand’s trading partners with supporting factors including the U.S. tax 
reform, Chinese government measures which could soften its economic slowdown, better -than-expected Asian 
exports, as well as government infrast ructure investment which could stimulate a higher private investment than 
the baseline projection. Risks to the inflation projection were also assessed to tilt to the downside  consistent 
with risks to the growth forecast.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report March  2018  5 1. Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to expand driven primarily by consumption and exports. 
Meanwhile, risks to global economic growth tilted to the downside as the U.S. foreign trade 
protectionist policy could intensify as well as likelihood and im pact of retaliation by trading 
partners could be greater than expected.  
The U.S. economy was expected to record a stronger growth than the previous 
assessment on the back of the tax reform policy which would support private spending . 
Consumption continued expanding thanks to a strong labor market and improved consumer 
confidence. In addition, sound household financial positions and the reduction of individual 
income tax would underpin consumption going forward. At the same time, priv ate investment 
continued to expand in line with robust business confidence, steady improvements in 
corporate profits, and the expansion in production sectors. Moreover, private investment 
would further benefit from the lower corporate income tax and repatr iation tax. Euro area 
economies were projected to exhibit a higher growth than the previous estimate and 
started to be more broad -based  thanks to the expansion of exports in tandem with global 
trade as well as continued domestic demand growth. Moreover, ac commodative financial 
conditions, improved private sector confidence, and a gradual recovery in the labor markets 
would help support economic growth in the period ahead. Japan continued to see growth 
across all economic sectors.  Private consumption would c ontinue expanding thanks to 
robust consumer confidence and improved labor market conditions. In addition, exports were 
expected to rise in accordance with steady improvements in global trade.  
Looking ahead, growth of advanced economies would continue to f ace risks from (1) 
uncertainties surrounding U.S. foreign trade policy, where an increase in import tariffs on solar 
cells, large washing machines, and metals and aluminum could lead to retaliatory measures 
by major economies, despite the limited impact on  the economy, and would in turn undermine 
global trade volume, prices, and supply chain, as the U.S. recently announced to raise tariff 
on imported goods from China which led to retaliation, (2) uncertainties pertaining to other 
policies in the U.S. such a s infrastructure investment policy, and (3) negotiations on trade and 
other agreements between the UK and the European Union after Brexit.  
The Chinese economy was expected to gain further traction despite its potential economic 
slowdown. Meanwhile, other Asian economies would continue expanding following robust 
exports growth in tandem with global demand and a gradual recovery of domestic demand 
thanks to improved private sector confidence.  
In the fourth quarter of 2017, China’s growth remained close to th e previous 
quarter , driven mainly by exports and consumption. In the period ahead, however, the 
Chinese economy was expected to slow down, consistent with its economic growth target for 
2018 and the government’s economic reforms. Such reforms particularly included (1) 
economic structural reforms that placed emphasis on quality growth through reducing excess 
production capacity and shutting down environmentally unfriendly factories and (2) financial 
stability measures such as measures to curb speculation in the real estate sector, control 
shadow banking risks, as well as tighten credit standards on loans given to local government, Monetary Policy Report March  2018  6 as these loans were partly contributed to high levels of corporate debt in the previous period 
especially those owned by state -owned enterprises.  
Asian economies (excluding Japan and China) continued to expand driven mainly 
by higher -than-expected exports growth across various product categories, particularly 
electronics, machinery and equipment, and commodities and food (Chart 1.1 ). Such export 
expansion and the broader growth helped support manufacturing to gradually recover and 
boost corporate performance and confidence, which would help underpin employment. In 
addition, fiscal impetus also supported household consumption going f orward. Looking ahead, 
Asian economies were expected to gain further traction although there remained several risks. 
First, uncertainties surrounding U.S. foreign trade policy could lead to retaliatory measures 
between the U.S and major economies  despite t he limited direct impact from increased U.S. 
import tariffs due to a small share of those Asian exports to the U.S. However, a potential 
retaliation could adversely affect global trade volume and cause an indirect impact on Asian 
exports. Second, elevated household debt could weigh on domestic demand recovery in 
several countries. Third, China’s economic reforms could slow down demand from China more 
than expected which would affect overall Asian exports. Fourth, geopolitical risks in the Middle 
East and th e Korean Peninsula would continue to warrant monitoring despite some 
improvement.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The growth outlook of Thailand’s trading partners was revised up, but risks to growth 
projection were expected to tilt to the downside.  
Economic growth of Thailand’s trading partners would likely to be stronger than 
expected in the previous Monetary Policy Report . This was due to better -than-expected 
economic outturns in the fourth quarter of 2017 in many countries, coupled with continued 
exports growth and U.S. fiscal  policy. The Committee therefore revised up the growth forecast 
for Thailand’s trading partners to 3.7 percent in 2018 and projected the growth forecast for 
2019 at 3.6 percent (Table 1.1).  
The Committee assessed that risks to growth of Thailand’s trading partners would tilt 
to the downside owing to U.S. foreign trade policy that could lead to retaliatory measures by 
major economies. In addition, there remained risks that warranted monitoring including (1) 
uncertainties surrounding other U.S. economic polic ies and (2) geopolitical risks that could 
5060708090100110120130140
2013 201 201 201 2017 2018Electronics (41.8%) Other Manufacturing products (22.6%)
Commodity-related products (20.8%) Machinery (5.9%)
Transportation (7.8%) Food (1.2%)Jan 18Chart 1.1 Asian exports continued to expand across various 
product categories
Note : * Asian exports include HK, TW, KR, MY and SG. 
( ) a share of total exports in 2017
Commodity -related products include crude oil , metals, chemicals, rubber, and 
vegetable oil.
Other manufacturing products include textile, papers, furniture, footwear and 
miscellaneous 
Source: CEICAsian exports value* classified by product categories
Index, sa(Jan 2013 = 100 )
Chart 1.2 Asian consumer confidence continued to improve
60708090100110120130
ID KR TW MY HK PHFeb 18
Mar 18
Mar 18
Dec 17 Sep 17Mar 18Consumer confidence index
Diffusion Index (par = 100)
Source : CEIC and calculation by the Bank of ThailandNote: Philippines’ consumer confidence is scaled from par = 0 to par = 100Monetary Policy Report March  2018  7 intensify and lead to increased volatility in financial markets, commodity prices, and the real 
sector, despite recent easing in tensions in some areas particularly the Korean Peninsula.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most central banks maintained accommodative monetary policy stance. However, some 
central banks gradually reduced the degree of monetary policy accommodation following 
improvements in growth and inflation outlooks.  
Most central banks maintained accommodative monetary policy stance. However, 
some central banks gradually reduced the degree of monetary policy accommodation. For 
instance, Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) raised its policy interest rate in January 2018 due to 
more robust economic growth whi ch was driven mainly by domestic demand. The Federal 
Reserve (Fed) raised the federal funds rate at its latest meeting in March 2018 in line with 
market expectations. The European Central Bank (ECB) adjusted its forward guidance by 
removing the easing bias  on the asset purchase program, pointing to a possibility that the ECB 
could reduce the degree of monetary policy accommodation sooner than market expectations. 
Moreover, several central banks of some Asian economies started to signal monetary policy 
norma lization in the period ahead owing to a continuation of economic growth and a gradual 
increase in inflation.  
Capital inflows toward emerging markets (EMs) accelerated in early 2018 as foreign 
investors allocated a larger share to EMs assets. However, capit al flows subsequently 
recorded net outflows due to market corrections and uncertainties pertaining to U.S. 
foreign trade policy.  
In January 2018, capital inflows to emerging markets (EMs) accelerated relative to the 
end of last year as a result of portfol io rebalancing of foreign investors with a larger share of 
EMs assets at the beginning of the year. This was on the back of improved growth outlooks in 
EMs, especially in Asia. Nevertheless, in February 2018, EM capital flows recorded net 
outflows l argely due to market correction  which resulted in a drop in worldwide asset prices 
Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partners’ economic growth
Annual change (%YoY) Weight (%) 2017* 2018 2019
United States 14.9 2.3 2.7 (2.5) 2.4
Euro area 10.0 2.5 2.3 (1.8) 2.0 
Japan 13.6 1.7 1.5 (1.2) 1.0
China 15.7 6.9 6.6 (6.5) 6.4
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 37.4 4.6 4.2 (4.1) 4.3
Total***  100 3.9 3.7 (3.5) 3.6
Note: *Outturn
* Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to 7 trading partners in 201 , namely 
Singapore (6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia (8.0%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), 
South Korea (2.8%), and the Philippines (3.7%)
** Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to major 13 trading partners as of 201  
(including the United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) reported in Monetary Policy Report December 2017Monetary Policy Report March  2018  8 and a short -term surge in the volatility index (VIX)1/ (Chart 1.3). In particular, the recent market 
corrections occurred after U.S. economic indicators including employment and in flation turned 
out to be better than expected. Consequently, investors anticipated that the Fed would raise 
the federal funds rate sooner than previously assessed. This was reflected in a higher 10 -year 
U.S. Treasury yield which prompted investors to sell risky assets globally. Later in March 2018, 
net capital outflows continued owing to uncertainties surrounding U.S. foreign trade policy, 
particularly the announcement to impose import tariffs on metal and aluminum products. In 
addition, reduction in the de gree of monetary policy accommodation by several central banks 
was expected to tighten liquidity in the global financial markets going forward. Hence, foreign 
investors became more cautious about their investment decisions and especially took into 
account  country specific factors such as economic fundamentals and external stability.  
Looking ahead, global financial markets would likely remain volatile. International 
capital flows could move both into and out of Thailand given uncertainties on the external f ront 
including U.S. foreign trade policy and retaliation by major countries, monetary policy 
directions of major advanced economies, and geopolitical risks.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
1/ VIX measures volatility in stock prices and is calculated from implied volatility of options in the S&P 500.  
Chart 1.3 Capital inflows to EMs surged during beginning of the year 
due to portfolio rebalancing of foreign investors; however, market 
correction and uncertainties pertaining to U.S foreign trade policy led 
to capital outflows from EMs since February 
market 
correction
-10-5051015202530
-4,000-2,00002,0004,0006,000
1-Jun-17
15-Jun-17
29-Jun-17
13-Jul-17
27-Jul-17
10-Aug-17
24-Aug-17
7-Sep-17
21-Sep-17
5-Oct-17
19-Oct-17
2-Nov-17
16-Nov-17
30-Nov-17
14-Dec-17
28-Dec-17
11-Jan-18
25-Jan-18
8-Feb-18
22-Feb-18
8-Mar-18Equity Debt VIX (RHS)
Note: *EMs includes Thailand, Indonesia, India, South Africa, and Turkey
Sources:  Bloomberg and Institute of International FinanceCapital inflows to EMs*  (weekly)
Million USD IndexMonetary Policy Report March  2018  9 Crude oil prices  trended up due to a decline in crude oil stock in the first quar ter of 2018 
but oil prices would likely decline during the remaining of the year as a result of higher 
shale oil production. In 2019, crude prices were projected to stabilize at a high level 
compared with the previous three years due to rising demand for o il following global 
economic growth.  
The Dubai crude prices steadily increased in the first quarter of 2018 . Crude oil 
stock ran down toward the equilibrium level as oil demand rose in line with global economic 
growth. Moreover, compliance with the produc tion cuts agreement among OPEC and non -
OPEC producers would limit an increase in oil supply. However, the Committee assessed 
crude oil prices to gradually decline in the remaining of 2018  as U.S. shale oil producers 
would increase production following high er prices in the previous period. In 2019, oil prices 
were expected to stabilize at a high level compared with the previous three years  in 
accordance with rising demand for oil following global economic growth. Meanwhile, higher 
U.S. shale oil production c ontinued to put downward pressures on crude oil prices.  
The Committee therefore revised up the projection for Dubai crude oil prices 
from 55.0 to 62.4 U.S. dollars per barrel in 2018 while prices were forecast to average at 
63.0 U.S. dollars per barrel in 2019.  The Committee viewed that risks to the projection still 
tilted to the upside owing to higher -than-expected oil demand in tandem with global economic 
growth and geopolitical risks in the Middle East and the Korean Peninsula that could raise oil 
prices . However, some downside risks remained due to higher -than-expected supply from 
U.S. shale oil producers and higher production by OPEC and non -OPEC producers toward 
the end of the production cut agreement. These factors might lead oil prices to be lower or  
rise more slowly than the baseline projection.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
020406080100120140
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019   Upper bound                  Lower bound        December 2017              March 2018Chart 1.4 Dubai crude oil price in 2018Q1 continued to increase 
from previous quarter as excess oil supply declined toward 
equilibrium level
U.S. dollar/barrelMonetary Policy Report March  2018  10 2. Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent Developments   
The Thai economy continued to gain further traction driven by external demand and 
gradual improvements in domestic demand.  
The Thai economy expanded 4.0 percent in the  fourth quarter of 2017 , driven mainly 
by expansion of merchandise exports across all major export destinations and almost all 
product categories on account of sustained improvements in external demand. Exports of 
services also recorded s trong growth on the back of increased foreign tourists in almost all 
groups, particularly Chinese and Russian tourists. Nonetheless, the number of Malaysian 
tourists continued to contract, partly as a result of intensifying competition to attract tourists 
from Vietnam. Private consumption continued expanding, especially spending on durable 
goods and was supported by strong purchasing power of non -agricultural households, 
especially those in the services sector, and by government measures such as the social 
welfare card project. However, overall purchasing power was not robust as benefits from 
economic expansion had yet to fully extend to all households. Private investment improved 
from investment in machinery and equipment, although investment in the constru ction sector 
continued to contract. Public expenditure declined from a lower public investment, partly owing 
to limited disbursement efficiency of some government agencies and a longer procurement 
process as a result of the Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560. 
Overall, the Thai economy recorded a 0.5 percent growth from the previous quarter, after 
seasonal adjustment, in the fourth quarter of 2017 and expanded 3.9 percent in 2017, an 
improvement from 3.3 percent in 2016.  
The Thai econ omy continued to gain further traction in the  first quarter of 2018 , as 
reflected in recent economic indicators. In particular, growth of merchandise exports was 
robust and broad -based across all sizes of exporters. The tourism sector continued to expand 
on account of an increasing number of foreign tourists in almost all groups consistent with the 
stronger global economic growth. Private consumption continued to improve, especially 
spending on services and durable goods, thanks to spending of non -agricultu ral households 
with high income. On the other hand, household income in some agricultural sectors declined, 
mainly due to a fall in agricultural prices despite increased agricultural output. Meanwhile, 
manufacturing, particularly in automobiles, grew in li ne with continued expansion in demand. 
Private investment picked up in tandem with economic expansion, particularly investment in 
machinery and equipment, while there were signs of improvements in investment in the 
construction sector. Public expenditure r esumed some growth on account of investment 
expenditure by the main government agencies including the Department of Highways, the 
Department of Rural Roads, and the Department of Irrigation. However, current expenditure 
contracted slightly due to decreased  expenditure on goods and services by the Office of the 
Basic Education Commission.  
Benefits from economic expansion were increasingly distributed to the labor market. 
Earnings of non -agricultural low -income households began to show signs of improvement, 
while household income in some agricultural sectors declined given that prices of several 
agricultural products remained subdued. Overall purchasing power improved slowly.  Monetary Policy Report March  2018  11 Non-agricultural household income improved overall . Purchasing power of the 
high-income group continued to increase, while purchasing power of the low -income group in 
certain export -related businesses, such as food and rubber products, began to improve. 
However, there were structural changes in the labor market with increased migration of non -
farm workers out of the manufacturing sector to the services sector, particularly tourism -
related businesses. Thus, some workers might earn less as they migrated to the services 
sector where wages were mostly lower th an in the manufacturing sector. Income of some 
agricultural households declined as prices of several agricultural products, such as rubber, 
palm oil, and livestock, remained subdued. Nonetheless, prices of rice improved, both white 
and jasmine rice, on the  back of increased external demand. As a result, overall household 
purchasing power was not sufficiently strong. With regard to the progress in managing and 
legalizing immigrant workers in Thailand in accordance with the Royal Decree on Managing 
the Work o f Aliens, the government announced the extension of the nationality verification 
period to June 30, 2018. This partly helped lessen adverse impacts on the economy, as most 
businesses were able to adjust and carry on their operations.  
Headline inflation d eclined due to lower energy and fresh food prices, while core inflation 
edged up slightly due to the excise tax increase and a gradual recovery in domestic 
demand.  
Headline inflation  averaged 0.56 
percent over the first two months of 2018. A 
continued cont raction in fresh food prices 
was the main factor keeping headline 
inflation at a low level. Nevertheless, an 
average headline inflation over the first two 
months was lower than an average of 0.88 
percent recorded in the fourth quarter of 
2017 (Chart 2.1). This was attributable to a 
slowdown in energy price increases in line 
with lower global crude prices and a 
contraction in fresh food prices as prices of 
meat and fruit declined given a large output 
in the market.  
Core inflation  over the first two months o f the first quarter averaged 0.61 percent, 
largely unchanged from the previous quarter. Prices of food items in the core inflation basket 
stabilized at a low level (Chart 2.2) in line with low costs of fresh food and liquefied petroleum 
gas (LPG). Meanwhil e, prices of non -food components in core inflation edged up slightly 
(Chart 2.3) following an increase in the excise tax on tobacco and alcoholic beverages. Prices 
of other items slowly expanded in tandem with a gradual improvement in domestic demand 
(Char t 2.4). In addition, structural factors, including production technology developments,  
e-commerce, and globalization, led to lower costs of production and intensified price 
competition. These factors weighed on an increase in prices of non -food components  in core 
inflation in recent periods. Short -term (one -year ahead) inflation expectations according to a 
survey of businesses in February 2018 stood at 2.1 percent, largely unchanged from the fourth 
quarter of 2017. Meanwhile, long -term (five -year ahead) in flation expectations according to a 
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Jan-Feb
2018Fresh food (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
Note: ( ) denotes share in inflation baskets
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of ThailandChart 2.1 Headline inflation declined slightly from previous 
quarter due mainly to energy and fresh food prices
Inflation target (2.5  1.5%)Headline inflation and inflation targetMonetary Policy Report March  2018  12 survey of professional forecasters in October 2017 declined to 1.8 percent from 2.3 percent 
from the previous survey.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short -term money market rates remained low, while long -term government bond yields 
declined at the beginning of the year due to higher demand from investors and 
subsequently gradually increased primarily on account of external factors.  
Most  short -term money market rates  remained close to the policy interest rate in the 
first quarter of 2 018. However, short -term government bond yields declined at the beginning 
of the year and stabilized at the level below the policy rate. This was attributable to a higher 
demand from foreign investors in tandem with the appreciating trend of the baht and l ow 
borrowing costs of the baht in the foreign exchange swap market, coupled with a limited supply 
of short -term bonds issued by the Bank of Thailand (Chart 2.4). Meanwhile, medium - and 
long-term government bond yields fell at the beginning of the year on a ccount of higher 
demand from both domestic and foreign investors, partly due to portfolio adjustments at the 
beginning of every year. After that, yields gradually rose in line with the increase in U.S. 
government bond yields following better -than-expected U.S. economic and inflation outturns. 
However, Thai bond yields increased to the lesser degree because (1) the net supply of bonds 
remained low given a large amount of matured bonds in the first quarter, resulting in high 
investor demand relative to supply , (2) Thai bonds were still attractive relative to those of other 
regional countries, leading to continued fund flows from foreign investors into the Thai bond 
market, and (3) with Thailand’s inflation expectations remaining low, investors therefore 
expect ed Thai government bond yields to remain low. Nonetheless, concerns over U.S. 
foreign trade policies and potential retaliatory measures from other countries did not pose any 
significant impact on Thai government bond yields (Chart 2.5).  
Table 2.1 Inflation
2018
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan-Feb
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) 0.26 0.69 1.25 0.10 0.45 0.88 0.56
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.76 0.73 0.66 0.47 0.49 0.61 0.61
Raw food 2.58 1.54 0.61 -2.99 -2.25 -0.80 -1.23
Energy -7.00 -1.06 6.69 2.67 4.86 5.24 2.62
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommerceAnnual percentage change2016 2017
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Jan-Feb
2018Non-alcoholic beverages
Seasoning and condiments
Prepared foodPercentContribution to food -in-core inflation  (28.17 )Chart 2.2 Food -in-core inflation stabilized at low level in line 
with low LPG and fresh food prices
Note: Contribution shows decomposition of inflation changes according to 
weights of each goods in CPI basket
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of Thailand
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Jan-Feb
2018Tobacco and alcoholic beverages
Apparel and footwear
Recreation and reading
Medical and personal care
Transport and communication
Housing and furnishingPercentChart 2.3 Nonfood in core inflation edged up following 
increase in excise tax on tobacco and alcoholic beverages  
Contribution to nonfood in core inflation  (71.83 )
Note: Contribution shows decomposition of inflation changes according to 
weight of each good in CPI basket
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March  2018  13   
 
 
 
 
 
Corporate bond yields trended down 
in tandem with smaller credit spreads . 
Meanwhile, financing costs through commercial 
banks, as reflected in the new loan rate (NLR)2/, 
remained at a low level, indicating financial 
conditions that  were accommodative (Chart 2.6).   
Private credit extended to both 
businesses and households continued to 
expand, together with improvements in credits 
extended to SMEs  observ ed in several 
businesses, reflecting a more broad -based 
economic recovery.  
Private credit  3 / accelerated 4.3 percent in February 2018 from the same period last 
year (Chart 2.7), higher than 4.1 percent observed in the fourth quarter of 2017. Business 
credit continued to expand on account of loans extended to large corporates in food and 
beverage sectors mainly to acquire foreign businesses. Meanwhile, loans to SMEs improved 
in several businesses such as wholesale food and beverages, real estate, rubber and plastic 
products, and warehouses. Such improvement reflected a more broad -based economic 
recovery. In addition, household credit accelerated across all loan purposes, particularly auto 
leasing which continued to accelerate in line with demand expansion and new car launches.  
The net issuance of corporate bonds increased  9.0 perc ent in the fourth quarter of 
2017 from the same period last year. This was particularly observed in finance and banking, 
wholesale and retail, food and beverages, and real estate sectors. Net issuance of corporate 
bonds was relatively stable in February 20 18 (Chart 2.8), where issuances of such bonds were 
due to funding in many businesses such as in the financial, energy, transport, real estate, and  
                                           
2/ NLR is calculated based on a weighted average of interest rates for new loan contracts extended by 14 Thai 
commercial banks (excluding consumer loans and loans to financial intermediaries). The data covers loans of value 
of 20 million baht or higher for a ll purposes and terms, and includes both secured and non -secured loans. Moreover, 
interest rates used in the calculation refer to the mid -rate between the lowest and the highest rates in each loan 
contract  
3/ Outstanding credit of other depositary corporat ions (ODCs), namely commercial banks, specialized financial 
institutions, finance companies, savings cooperatives, and market mutual funds. 
1.001.251.501.75
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan% p.a.
policy rate  O/N Interbank
1 month Gov. bond 1 month BIBOR
        Chart 2.4 Short -term interest rates remained close to policy 
rate, except short -term government bond yields which 
declined at beginning of the year and stabilized at low levels
Short -term rates in financial markets
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)    
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.
2016Chart 2.5 Movements in medium -and long -term 
government bond yields were driven by higher demand 
from foreign investors and external factors
Government bond yields
2017
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)2018
Chart 2.6 New Loan Rate (NLR ) stabilized at low level
New Loan Rate
7.086.28
5.03
4.00
2.75
1.50
02468
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul JanMLR NLR Policy rate
                    
Source: Bank of Thailand    % p.a.Monetary Policy Report March  2018  14 food and beverage sectors. Funding through the equity market continued to increase in the 
fourth quarter of 2 017, especially in businesses related to food, technology and agriculture. In 
February 2018, funding through the equity market increased slightly by businesses related to 
energy and real estate sectors. Overall, funding in the private sector continued to e xpand 
albeit at a slower pace.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Going forward, financial conditions 
were expected to remain accommodative 
as reflected in the real policy interest rate 
which remained at a low level and was 
moderate compared with other countries 
(Chart 2.9). Meanwhile, financing costs 
through commercial banks, as reflected i n the 
new loan rate (NLR), were expected to 
stabilize at a low level. Nevertheless, the 
Credit Condition Survey4/ indicated that 
financial institutions would still maintain 
caution in extending credit in the first quarter 
of 2018, except for auto leasing where 
financial institutions became more vigilant.  
The baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar, while the baht wa s somewhat stronger 
relative to movements of trading partners’ currencies consistent with Thailand’s economic 
fundamentals.   
In the first quarter of 2018 the baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar  relative to 
the end of previous quarter. The baht appreci ation was mainly due to the weakening of the 
U.S. dollar in January (Chart 2.10). This was underpinned by the global economic outlook, 
particularly better economic outlooks of the euro area and Asia relative to the U.S., together 
with negative market senti ments on the U.S. dollar due to uncertainties surrounding U.S. 
                                           
4 / Survey  of credit conditions for the fourth quarter of 2017 and outlook for the first quarter of 2018.  
 
Chart 2.7 Private credit, extended to both businesses 
and household, continued to expand
Growth of private credit
Percentage change from the same period last year
0246810
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Business credit Household credit
Total private credit
3.84.6
4.3
Source: Bank of ThailandNote: Private credit includes credit to other depositary corporations ( ODCs) 
namely commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, finance 
companies, savings cooperatives, and money market mutual funds
9.1
3.85.1
010203040
Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Outstanding of corporate bond
Business credit*
Total financingChart  2.8 Overall financing continued to expand albeit at 
slower pace
Growth of corporate bond outstanding and business credit  
Percentage change from the same period last year
Note : *Business credit covers lending activities of Other Depository 
Corporations (ODCs)
**In August, businesses in telecommunication and energy sectors did not 
roll over the matured bonds.
Sources : Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA ) and Bank of Thailand
Chart 2.  Thailand’s real policy rate  remained low and 
was moderate compared with other countries
Real policy rates*
Note : *Calculated from  policy rate subtracted by one -year-ahead inflation 
expectation according to a survey by Consensus Economics 
(as of 12 March 2018 )
Sources: Bloomberg, Consensus Economics, calculation by Bank of Thailand-3-2-1012
US EU JP UK NZ KR ID MY PH IN THPercentMonetary Policy Report March  2018  15 foreign trade policies and concerns over the passage of the drafted budget bill which resulted 
in a partial government shutdown in the U.S. After that, the baht was relatively stable against 
the dollar, despite a sharp depreciation during a short period of global market corrections in 
February. Later in March, uncertainties pertaining to U.S. foreign trade policies heightened 
following the announcement of higher import tariffs on steel and alumi num by the U.S. This 
could affect confidence on the U.S. economy if there were retaliatory measures from major 
trading partners affected by the new tariffs such as China. Consequently, the baht would 
appreciate against the U.S. dollar in the same direction  as most regional currencies, although 
the pace of appreciation varied depending on country -specific factors. As of March 27, 2018, 
the baht closed at 31.17 baht per U.S. dollar, appreciated 4.5 percent from the end of the 
previous quarter.  
The nominal e ffective exchange rate (NEER) stood at 115.47 on March 27, 2018, a 
2.3 percent appreciation from the end of the previous quarter, as the baht appreciated against 
most trading partner currencies (Chart 2.11). As of the end of February 2018, the real effecti ve 
exchange rate (REER) rose 2.0 percent from the end of last year, which was close to NEER 
appreciation. On the whole, REER appreciation was consistent with Thailand’s economic 
fundamentals especially its strong external stability. In the period ahead, ex change rates 
would likely remain volatile due to uncertainties surrounding monetary, fiscal, and foreign trade 
policies of major advanced economies.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial stability remained sound overall, with continued economic expansion leading to 
improvemen ts in financial positions of the private sector. However, there was increased 
accumulation of risks in certain pockets that warranted monitoring, particularly debt 
serviceability of households and some SMEs, the continued search -for-yield behavior, and 
an oversupply of property in the real estate market in certain price ranges and areas.  
Thailand’s financial stability remained sound overall with strong external stability as 
reflected in a high level of foreign exchange reserves and high liquidity of foreig n currencies, 
given sustained current account surplus which would provide cushion against volatilities in 
global financial markets, and a low level of external debt to GDP relative to emerging 
economies. In addition, financial positions of financial instit utions remained strong as reflected 
in high levels of capital buffers and provisions for loan losses to cushion against risks 
stemming from deteriorating credit quality. Risks related to leveraging of the private sector 
decreased overall, as reflected in t he downward trend of debt to GDP of non -financial 
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct JanChart 2.10 The baht strengthened against U.S. dollar 
due to dollar weakening
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 27 March 2018)USDTHB, NEER, DXY
Baht per U.S. dollar Index
2015 2016 2017USDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
DXY
2018
-6%-4%-2%0%2%4%6%8%
PHP
INR
IDR
AUD
KRW
TWD
SGD
EUR
CNY
MYR
THB
GBP
JPY
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 27 March 2018)Percent
Positive value indicates appreciation against U.S. dollarChart 2.11 Major currencies and most regional 
currencies appreciated against U.S. dollar
Currency changes against U.S. dollar (27 Mar 18 compared to 29 Dec 17)Monetary Policy Report March  2018  16 corporates (Chart 2.12). This was on account of a continued economic expansion and a 
smaller growth of corporate and household debts relative to the previous 2 -3 years. However, 
the Committee assessed that there remained pockets of risks to be monitored going forward 
summarized as follows.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Household debt showed signs of a slight acceleration while debt 
serviceability of certain households deteriorated . The latest data as of the third quarter of 
2017 indicated that household debt accelerated slightly in almost all loan purposes, particularly 
credit card and auto loans which grew in line with economic expansion and new debt 
accumulation following an expi ration of the first -car scheme (Chart 2.13). Meanwhile, debt 
serviceability continued to warrant monitoring, although the non -performing loan (NPL) ratio 
for consumer loans declined to 2.68 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017 from 2.74 percent in 
the pre vious quarter. Such decrease was partly attributable to end -of-year consumer loan 
portfolio management of financial institutions. However, a rise in new -entry NPLs was 
observed, especially in mortgage loans.  
(2) Some SMEs which continued to incur losses would see deterioration in their 
abilities to service debt and cushion against economic volatilities . Performances and 
financial positions of some businesses, 
especially SMEs, remained fragile, as 
reflected in the operating profit margin (OPM) 
and interest  coverage ratio (ICR) of small 
businesses in the fourth quarter of 2018/5 that 
continued to be negative. This was consistent 
with a high NPL ratio of 4.4 percent for SME 
loans.  
(3) The continued search -for-yield 
behavior could lead to underpricing of 
risks . A prolonged period of low interest rates  
was one of the key factors prompting investors 
to invest in riskier assets. Despite limited 
                                           
5/ calculation  of ICR and OPM at 25th percentile of small -sized companies  listed at the Stock Exchange of 
Thailand  
Chart 2.12 Private debt -to-GDP ratio trended down 
since second half of 2016
606570758085
80100120140160180
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Private non-financial sector debt
Non-financial corporations debt (RHS)
Household debt (RHS)% of GDP
Source: Bank of Thailand% of GDPPrivate non -financial sector debt -to-GDP ratio 
3.13.7
-505101520
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Mortgage
Auto loans
Other personal loans
Personal loans under regulation
Credit card
Unclassified
Business
Growth of household debtChart 2.13 Household debt slightly increased after 
having slowed down in earlier period
Contribution to growth of household debt by loan purpose 
%YoY
Source : Bank of Thailand 
01020304050
20122013201 201 201 2017 Jan 2018Liablilities: Deposit from members
Assets
Equity instrument investments (2.0%)
Debt instrument investments (14.6%)
Loan to members (74.8%)Chart 2.14 Investment in equity instruments of 
savings cooperatives began to slow down
Asset,  investment, and deposit growth of savings cooperatives
%YoY
Note : ( ) denotes share to total assets  of savings cooperatives as of 
December 2017  
Source : Cooperative Auditing Department, calculation by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March  2018  17 systemic risk overall, there were pockets of risks that warranted close monitoring. Such risks 
include (1) overseas inves tment through foreign investment funds (FIF) that remained high 
and could lead to concentration risk since these investments were mainly concentrated in only 
five countries, and (2) a continued search -for-higher -yield behavior through savings 
cooperatives,  whose assets and deposits increased at a high rate albeit slowing down 
somewhat after regulatory authorities collaborated to enhance supervisory standards (Chart 
2.14). At the same time, accumulation of credit and liquidity risks also warranted monitoring  
as well as growing linkages, through increased borrowings, between savings cooperatives. In 
addition, most savings cooperatives continued to expand their investments in bonds and 
equities, thereby increasing the importance of savings cooperatives to the f inancial system. 
The Committee would therefore continue to closely monitor such linkages as well as 
developments of savings cooperatives.  
(4) An oversupply in the real estate sector was observed in certain price ranges 
and areas . An oversupply of condomin ium units with price below 3 million baht continued to 
increase, while the time taken for all units to be sold appeared longer. Consequently, this could 
affect liquidity of some property developers, particularly small and medium -sized developers. 
In additi on, an oversupply of condominium units in certain areas warranted monitoring, 
especially those along the MRT Purple Line (Khlong Bang Phai – Tao Poon). Although some 
developers responded by postponing launches of new projects and terminating some projects 
that were already open for sale, prevailing low demand meant that developers would take 
some time for all the excess supply of condominium units to be sold.  
2.2 Outlook for the Thai Economy  
Under the Committee’s assessment, Thailand’s economic growth was p rojected 
to gain further traction. The Thai economy would expand 4.1 percent in 2018, a higher 
growth rate than previously estimated in the previous Monetary Policy Report , and 
would continue expanding at the same rate in 2019. Key growth drivers included (1) a 
continued expansion of merchandise exports and tourism in line with trading partners’ growth, 
(2) gradual improvements in private spending, and (3) benefits from gov ernment measures 
aimed at improving the well -being of low -income households which would partly help drive 
private spending. Meanwhile, inflation was projected to remain at a low level due mainly to 
supply -side factors but would slowly trend up.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  2.2  Forecast summary
Percent 2017* 2018 2019
GDP growth 3.9 4.1 (3.9) 4.1
Headline inflation 0.7 1.0 (1.1) 1.2
Core inflation 0.6 0.7 (0.8) 0.8
Note: * Outturn
() Monetary Policy Report December 2017
Sources : NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimatesMonetary Policy Report March  2018  18  Summary of the key forecast assumptions  
 • Trading partner economies  were projected to achieve higher growth than previously 
estimated. In particular, the U.S. economy would continue to expand on the back of domestic 
demand underpinned by the tax reform. This would consequently benefit exports of China, Asia, 
and the euro area whose exports were projected to achieve higher growt h rate than previously 
expected.  
 • The federal funds rate  was expected to be raised three times in each 2018 and 2019 and the 
Fed was expected to gradually commence its balance sheet reduction in accordance with the 
announced plan.  
 • Asian currencies (excluding the Chinese yuan)  were stronger than the previous assessment 
throughout the forecast horizon given stronger -than-expected outturns in the first quarter of 2018 
and improving economic fundamentals of Asian economies. In the period ahead, Asian cu rrencies 
were expected to slightly appreciate, where the impact from increases in the federal funds rate on 
Asian currencies would likely be less than previously assessed.  
 • The Dubai crude oil price  was revised up throughout the forecast horizon given h igher -than-
expected outturn. The increase was due to a decrease in crude oil supply toward a more balanced 
level on account of a rising demand for oil in line with global economic growth and the production 
cut in accordance with agreement between OPEC and non-OPEC producers.  
 • Farm income  was revised down from the previous assessment due to a decline in agricultural 
prices as a result of a higher global agricultural output such as rubber, palm oil, and livestock, 
despite improvements in the prices of rice  owing to a higher external demand.  
 • Public spending at current prices  was revised down due to (1) a larger -than-expected impact 
from the Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560, particularly on delay in 
disbursement by local governmen ts, which could result in a lower public expenditure on both 
consumption and investment, (2) the holdover of some investment projects of state -owned 
enterprises due to problems in accessing construction sites and delay in contract signing from the 
previous  assessment, and (3) delay in the construction of three motorway projects, namely 
Bangyai–Kanchanaburi, Bang Pa In –Nakornratchasrima, and Pattaya –Mabtapud, due to difficulty 
in accessing construction sites and insufficient land expropriation budget.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2017* 2018 2019
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 53.1 62.4 (55.0) 63.0
Farm income (% YoY) 1.7 3.1 (4.1) 2.2
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,532 2,676 (2,708) 2,838
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/926 1,038 (1,067) 1,092
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 1.38 2.13 (2.13) 2.88
Trading partners’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.9 3.7 (3.5) 3.6
Regional currencies (excl. China ) vis-à-vis the U .S. dollar (index )3/155.7 148.0 (154.3) 147.0
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand total exports
                     3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
               * Outturns
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report December 2017Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report March  2018  19 Merchandise exports were expected to continue expanding across various product 
categories and almost all export destinations.  
The value of merchandise exports was projected to continue expanding and 
record 7.0 and 3.6 percent growth in 2018 and 2019, respectively , where growth would be 
observed both in terms of price and volume. Export prices were expected to trend up in line 
with crude oil prices, especially for commodities and oil -related products such as petroleum 
products. Export volume was expecte d to gain further traction across various product 
categories, particularly electronics, automobile parts, and processed agricultural products, 
(Chart 2.15) and in almost all export destinations (Chart 2.16) thanks to expansion of the global 
economy and glo bal trade volume. Moreover, Thai exports of electronics were projected to 
record robust growth, especially integrated circuits which would be used in Internet of Things 
(IoT) devices and electronic parts in automobiles. However, the value of merchandise 
exports would likely register a slower growth in 2019, consistent with a slowdown in 
trading partners’ growth and global trade volume, after having expanded at a higher growth 
rate than historical average in the previous period. In addition, Thai exports wou ld also be 
constrained by structural problems in certain industries which would take time to be resolved.  
Nevertheless, the Committee viewed that the increase in import tariffs by the U.S. on 
certain products was expected to have a limited direct impact  on Thai merchandise exports in 
the short term, as only a small share of Thai products in total Thai exports would be subject to 
these new tariffs. However, the Committee would continue to monitor the potential indirect 
effect of the increase in import tar iffs by the U.S. on the global economy, particularly through 
supply chains, which could weigh on international trade and Thai merchandise exports in the 
period ahead.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exports of services would continue to expand on the back of the tourism sector.  
Thailand’s exports of services were expected to expand in line with continued 
improvement in tourism. The projection of the number of foreign tourists was revised 
up to 37.6 million in 2018 from the previous forecast of 37.3 million, while the number 
of fo reign tourists would likely rise to 39.0 million in 2019.  Key factors supporting the 
tourism sector included a steady growth in the number of Chinese tourists, both group tourists 
with higher spending per head and free and independent travelers (FIT) with high purchasing 
power. In addition, Indian tourists would likely increase after the Airports Authority of India 
406080100120140160
Jan-13
Jul-13
Jan-14
Jul-14
Jan-15
Jul-15
Jan-16
Jul-16
Jan-17
Jul-17
Jan-18Electrical appliances (5.6) Vehicle parts (6.5)
Electronics ex. HDD (9.0) Petroleum-related (11.5)
Agro-manu (12.3)
Note: Number in () denotes share in total exports in 2017
Source: Customs Department, calculation by Bank of Thailand.Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Value of merchandise exports, by product categoryChart  2.15 Merchandise exports continued to expand 
across various product categories
Chart  2.16 Merchandise exports expanded across almost 
all export destinations
708090100110120130
Jan-13
Jul-13
Jan-14
Jul-14
Jan-15
Jul-15
Jan-16
Jul-16
Jan-17
Jul-17
Jan-18ASEAN (26.3) US (11.3) China (12.6)
EU (11.3) Japan (9.3)
Note: Number in ( ) represents share in total exports in 2017
Source: Customs Department, calculation by Bank of ThailandValue of merchandise exports by export destination
Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Monetary Policy Report March  2018  20 granted airlines registered in Thailand additional capacity entitlements under bilateral air 
services agreement since March 2018. However, growt h of Thailand’s tourism sector would 
likely slow down given capacity constraints in accommodating the rising number of tourists in 
the main airports and the delay in the Airport of Thailand Plc (AOT)’s Suvarnabhumi Airport 
development project phase 2, whic h was under the standard price review. Nevertheless, such 
constraints were eased somewhat with increasing roles of local airports operated by the 
Department of Airports and the Ministry of Defense, especially Krabi, Suratthani, and U -tapao 
Airports, in fac ilitating international flights.  
Given improvements in the value of merchandise and services exports, the projection 
for the value of merchandise and services imports was revised up with higher imports of raw 
materials and intermediate goods and higher oil  prices. Consequently,  the current account 
would likely record a slightly smaller surplus than estimated in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report , registering 42.2 billion U.S. dollar in 2018 and was expected to fall to 39.5 
billion U.S. dollars in 2019 . 
Private consumption would gradually expand.  
Private consumption would gradually expand  supported by earnings of non -
agricultural medium -to-high income households that remained sound. In addition, earnings of 
low-income households began to show signs of imp rovement as employment picked up in 
export -related businesses and the tourism sector. Meanwhile, household income in some 
agricultural sectors was projected to slow down in line with agricultural prices. Overall 
household purchasing power would gradually i mprove. This was partly a result of structural 
changes in the labor market such as adoption of automation in place of human labor in the 
production process as well as a decline in agricultural prices which made farming unattractive. 
Hence, these led to a g reater migration of workers out of the manufacturing and agricultural 
sectors to the services sector. Workers who migrated from the manufacturing sector to the 
services sector might earn less as they mostly migrated to certain parts of the services sector 
with relatively lower productivity and wages. Moreover, elevated household debt underlined 
the fact that workers still needed to earmark part of their income for debt repayment. However, 
government measures, such as the social welfare card project (second phase), the community 
enterprise development project and the agricultural reform project, would partly help raise 
consumption of low -income households in the period ahead (Box: Assessing private 
consumption recovery).  
Public spending helped drive growth t o the lesser extent than previously assessed.  
Public spending partly helped drive economic growth  on the back of continued 
expansion in public consumption and investment. However, public expenditure was lower than 
assessed in the previous Monetary Policy R eport . This was because the impact from the 
Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560 on government disbursement 
was larger and longer than expected. In particular, disbursement by certain state agencies 
was significantly affected, especial ly local governments that would now be governed by the 
new law and had not previously operated under this system. Those agencies would thus need 
some time to adjust. Moreover, there were delay in the construction of three motorway projects 
including Bang Y ai–Kanchanaburi, Bang Pa In –Nakhon Ratchasima and Pattaya –Map Ta 
Phut, due to difficulty in accessing construction sites and insufficient land expropriation budget. Monetary Policy Report March  2018  21 Meanwhile, most investment projects of state -owned enterprises (SOEs) were not affected by 
the new law6/ and were mostly on track. However, some projects were postponed such as the 
second phase of the Mass Rapid Transit Authority (MRT)’s Orange Line project (Thailand 
Cultural Centre –Min Buri), the State Railway of Thailand’s five double -track ra ilway projects, 
and the National Housing Authority’s housing development project.  
Private investment would continue to improve.  
Private investment would continue to improve  consistent with growth of exports 
and private consumption. Such improvement was par tly reflected by a rising demand for 
business credit and the increase in the total value of investment applications submitted to the 
Board of Investment (BOI) at the end of 2017. Moreover, investment incentives offered by the 
government  would play an impor tant role in driving private investment, particularly through 
public -private partnership (PPP), public investment in infrastructure projects, and development 
projects under the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) initiative whose prospects became more 
certain.  Therefore, these measures would help promote business confidence and foster an 
investment -friendly environment that would attract greater foreign investment. Apart from 
these, government measures aimed at improving the well -being of low -income households —
such as the community enterprise development and agricultural reform projects —would partly 
help boost domestic investment to some extent.  
Inflation stabilized at a low level in the short run but was expected to slowly rise.  
In recent periods, inflation st abilized at a lower level than previously estimated in the 
previous Monetary Policy Report . This was owing to continued contraction in fresh food prices 
following declined prices of meat, particularly pork, stemming from a substantial increase in 
supply, a nd a fall in prices of vegetables and fruits given higher agricultural output thanks to 
favorable weather conditions. In addition, prices did not sufficiently accelerate as they were 
held back by a gradual expansion in domestic demand.  
In the period ahead , inflation was 
projected to rise at a slower pace than 
previously assessed in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report . This was attributable to a 
slower increase in cost -push inflationary 
pressures relative to the recent periods, as 
costs of fresh food prices  would likely remain 
low due to the government’s water resource 
management aiming to improve drainage for 
agriculture purposes. Other contributing 
factors included structural changes from 
technological advancements that helped 
reduce costs of goods and ser vices and intensifying business competition. Meanwhile, the 
impact from the minimum wage increases in 2018 on inflation was largely limited, as only a 
                                           
6/ Procurement of state -owned enterprises (SOEs) directly related to commerce was exempt from such law. Also, 
on January 31, 2018, the Public Procurement and Supplies Management Policy Committee approved a draft of the 
new procurement practices for 17 SOEs . Hence, this would allow spending by SOEs to continue smoothly . 
-4-2024
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Chart 2.17 Output Gap
%Monetary Policy Report March  2018  22 small share of workers in total labor force received higher minimum wages. Therefore, the 
impact from the  minimum wage increases on the overall wage was assessed to be relatively 
small. Meanwhile, demand -pull inflationary pressures were close to the previous estimates. 
Although the output gap was expected to close in the latter half of 2018 (Chart 2.17), infl ation 
might not increase significantly as demand -pull pressures would be constrained by  positive 
spillovers from economic expansion that were not sufficiently broad -based and continuous 
sales promotion offered by businesses. The Committee therefore projected headline 
inflation to average 1.0 and 1.2 percent in 2018 and 2019 respectively, while core 
inflation was projected to average 0.7 and 0.8 percent in 2018 and 2019 respectively . 
Risks to the growth projection were expected to tilt to the downside .  
Under the Committee’s assessment, risks to the growth projection were expected 
to tilt to the downside , as reflected in the fan chart that skewed downward throughout the 
forecast horizon (Chart 2.18). The Thai economy would face greater downside risks 
stemming from both external and domestic factors. Risks pertaining to U.S. foreign trade 
policies and potential retaliatory measures by major economies could weigh on trading partner 
growth to a larger extent than previously assessed despite some improvemen ts in geopolitical 
risks related to the Korean Peninsula. Moreover, domestic risks included a larger -than-
expected impact from the Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560 on 
public expenditure and a lower -than-expected domestic spending a s improvement in 
purchasing power was not yet sufficiently broad -based. However, on the upside , there were 
possibilities that the growth outturn might be higher than the baseline projection  given 
a better -than-expected growth outlook of Thailand’s trading partners with supporting factors 
including the U.S. tax reform, the Chinese government’s measures which could soften its 
economic slowdown, as well as government infrastructure investment which could stimulate a 
higher private investment than the baseline projection. With regard to inflation, the Committee 
assessed risks to both headline and core inflation projections would tilt to the downside  
(Chart 2.19 and 2.20) consistent with risks to the growth forecast.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.18 Growth forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of probability distribution
-404812
-404812
201 201 201 2017 2018 201 % YoYMonetary Policy Report March  2018  23   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2017* 2018 2019
GDP growth 3.9 4.1 (3.9) 4.1
Domestic demand 2.1 3.6 (3.4) 3.4
     Private consumption 3.2 3.3 (3.1) 3.3
     Private investment 1.7 3.0 (2.3) 3.6
     Government consumption 0.5 2.9 (3.2) 3.3
     Public investment -1.2 9.5 (9.0) 3.4
Exports of goods and services 5.5 5.2 (3.7) 3.6
imports of goods and services 6.8 5.5 (3.5) 3.7
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 49.3 42.2 (43.1) 39.5
Value of merchandise exports 9.7 7.0 (4.0) 3.6
Value of merchandise imports 14.4 11.5 (7.5) 5.4
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 35.4 37.6 (37.3) 39.0
Note: *Outturns
             ( ) Monetary Policy Report December 2017Annual percentage change
Chart 2.19 Headline inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of probability distribution
-4-202468
-4-202468
201 201 201 2017 2018 201 Headline inflation target 2.5  1.5%% YoY
Chart 2.20 Core inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of probability distribution
-2-101234
-2-101234
201 201 201 2017 2018 201 % YoYMonetary Policy Report March  2018  24 Assessing private consumption recovery  
 Private consumption is considered one of Thailand’s key growth drivers with its share of 
around half the country’s gross domestic product (GDP). However, the role of private consumption 
has been declining, as reflec ted in the share of private consumption to GDP falling from its peak 
at 56.0 percent in 2001 to 48.8 percent in 2017 (Chart 1). Moreover, private consumption growth 
tends to stay below and diverge further from GDP growth particularly in the last five years  despite 
their similar growth rates in the past (Chart 2). The growth divergence could reflect both 
structural and cyclical changes in private consumption  where the divergence has been clearly 
observed since 2011. Since then, Thailand faced series of econo mic structural changes . First, 
the great flood in 2011  undermined employment and household income in the affected areas as 
well as overall consumer confidence. In addition, some households bore an extra burden from 
restoration and reconstruction expenses o n damaged houses and assets. Second, household 
debt has remained persistently high since the 2011  and after the first -car7/ scheme. Third, 
severe drought in 2015  weighed on farm 
income. Fou rth, there were structural 
changes in the labor market  as workers 
moved from the manufacturing sector with 
higher average income to the services 
sector with lower average income. As a 
result, overall non -farm income continued to 
fall. Fifth, Thailand’s aging society  has 
prompted some consumers to save more for 
their retir ement. As a consequence, household  
disposable income has consistently declined . 
(Chart 3) All of these factors have caused 
private consumption growth to be below its 
historical growth and GDP growth . 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
7/ Repayment of auto leasing and hire purchase loans typically takes place ove r 4-7 years.  
Private consumption to GDP
2001 = 56.0%
2017 = 48.8%
45505560
1  3
1   
1  7
1   
2001
2003
200 
2007
200 
2011
2013
201 
2017Great
floodDrought
Labor movement 
and aging societyElevated household debt 
from first -car scheme
Source: NESDB, calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent of GDPChart 1 Private consumption to GDP ratio has fallen 
since 2011
PeriodGrowth from the same period last year (percent)
Real GDPReal Private 
Consumption
1990 -2000 5.1 5.1
2001 -2010 4.6 4.2
2011 -2017 3.1 2.7
2013 -2017 2.8 2.0Chart 2 Private consumption growth is now below 
GDP growth
Real GDP and real private consumption growth
Source: NESDB, calculation by Bank of Thailand
02468
5456586062
2002200 200 200820102012201 201 Household disposable income to GDP
Household saving to GDP (RHS)Percent
Sources: Bank of Thailand, NESDB, calculation by Bank of ThailandNote: Household disposable income = corporate profits + labor compensation 
+ net income from asset (rent & interest rate) + benefits from social security 
+ transfer receipts -taxes on income and asset -social security payments
-transfer paymentsChart 3 Aging prompts consumers to save more for 
retirement; household disposable income declines
Household disposable income to GDP and household saving 
to GDP
PercentMonetary Policy Report March  2018  25  Private consumption growth in recent periods is mainly attributable to spending by 
a high -income group . Middle and high -income non -farm households8/ account for around 66 
percent of overall spending (Chart 4). At the same time, income indicators for high -income non -
farm households have steadi ly trended up9/ (Chart 5). These leads to a continued expansion in 
consumption on services and durable goods, especially vehicles. On the other hand, consumption 
on semi -durable and non -durable goods, particularly consumer products, grows only slowly. This  
is partly because purchasing power of a low -income group —both in farm and non -farm sectors —
has yet to fully recover. As a result, overall private consumption growth10/ has remained low.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private consumption cycles  
Private consumption continues  to gain further traction as reflected in an expansion 
phase of the cycle primarily led by durable goods consumption in line with Thailand’s 
business cycle  (Chart 6).11/ Decomposition of the overall private consumption cycle suggests the 
following key findi ngs (Chart 7). First, the durable goods consumption cycle is in an expansion 
phase, consistent with business cycle, reflecting that households will consume more on durable 
goods relative to normal trend given improved consumer confidence on the overall eco nomy and 
future income. Second, the services consumption cycle is in an expansion phase. Third, the semi -
durable goods consumption cycle is in a slow expansion phase. Fourth, the non -durable goods 
consumption cycle is in line with normal trend. Details of the analysis are as follows.  
 
                                           
8/ Non-farm households whose income are in fourth and fifth qu intiles  
9/ Transfer payments  of income and wages in baht term per person per month are indicator s of income for high -
income households  
10/ Largest share of private consumption contri butes to  consumption  on services (e.g. rent and transportation),  
non-durable goods (e.g. food), durable goods (e.g. vehicles) and semi -durable goods (e.g. apparels), respectively .  
11/ Cycle analysis is a common assessment which detrends, seasonally adjusts , and corrects for irregularity of 
economic variables. The decomposition can identify cyclical factors which can measures deviation from trend of 
economic variables.   
11%
4%
7%
12%
20%46%
 Farm (avg. 26,000 baht/month)
 Non-farm  quintile 1 (avg. 6,700 baht/month)
 Non-farm quintile  2 (avg. 12,000 baht/month)Non-farm quintile  3 (avg. 19,000 baht/month)
 Non-farm quintile  4 (avg. 28,000 baht/month)
 Non-farm  quintile 5 (avg. 69,000 baht/month)Chart 4 Private consumption expands mainly on the back of 
spending by middle -and high -income groups (around 66 
percent of total expenditure)
Household expenditure structure by income group (average over Q1 -Q3 2017)
Source: Socio -economic survey (SES)Note: Household income groups are classified by quintile (20%) of socio -
economic survey (SES) in 2017, consisting of farm households 15% and 
non-farm households 85 % of total households respectively.
Index, seasonally adjusted ( 3-month moving average)
(Jan 2014 = 100)
6090120150
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Real wage and salary transfers per person via banking system*
Real average non-farm income
Real farm income
Note: Wage and salary transfers are calculated from (1) transfer transactions 
reported by commercial banks to Bank of Thailand which covers 90% of all 
retail transfer transactions and (2) transfer transactions through Interbank 
Transaction Management and Exchange  (ITMX ) which covers 10% of all retail 
transfer transactions.
Sources: Bank of Thailand, Office of Agricultural Economics, National 
Statistical Office, Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of ThailandChart 6 Non-farm households in high -income group tend to 
have higher earnings relative to other groups, as reflected 
in real wage and salary transfers per person via banking system
Household income indicatorsMonetary Policy Report March  2018  26  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The expansion phase of the durable goods  consumption cycle is due to sustained 
income and confidence among the high -income group. In addition, declining debt burden from the 
first-car scheme and the launch of new car models will support consumption on durable goods 
especially vehicles going forward. The services  consumption cycle is also in an expansion 
phase due to an upward trend in spending on tourism activities by Thais, both domestically and 
abroad. This will support consumption on services, particularly spending on hotels, restaurants, 
and transportation. The  semi -durable goods  consumption cycle is in a slow expansion phase 
partly supported by higher demand for spare and automobile parts following purchases of vehicles. 
Moreover, demand for textiles and apparels has shown an improving sign, as reflected in lar ger 
imported textiles and apparels in recent periods. Meanwhile, consumption on non -durable 
goods has only seen slight growth partly because purchasing power of low -income households —
both in farm and non -farm sectors —was not yet sufficiently robust. Howeve r, the government has 
announced measures aimed at improving welfare of low -income households. These include the 
additional budget in 2018 which would be gradually spread in 2018 and 2019 through the social 
welfare card project (second phase), the community  enterprise development project, as well as 
reforms in the agricultural sector with job creations during the drought season. Such measures are 
expected to support consumption of low -income households and more robust growth of overall 
private consumption go ing forward. Nonetheless, private consumption growth could somewhat fall 
below its historical growth rates due to structural changes in the labor market as more workers 
have moved to services sector and earned lower average income as well as Thailand’s mov ing 
toward an aging society.  
 
-10-50510
1994Q4
1995Q4
1996Q4
1997Q4
1998Q4
1999Q4
2000Q4
2001Q4
2002Q4
2003Q4
2004Q4
2005Q4
2006Q4
2007Q4
2008Q4
2009Q4
2010Q4
2011Q4
2012Q4
2013Q4
2014Q4
2015Q4
2016Q4
2017Q4Private consumption cycle
Thailand's business cycle1997 crisisGFC
Great
floodFirst-car
scheme DroughtDeviation from trend (4Q moving average )PercentChart 6 Private consumption cycle is currently in expansion 
phase in tandem with overall business cycle
Private consumption cycle and overall business cycle
Source: NESDB, calculation by Bank of Thailand
-10-50510Semi -durable goods 
consumption cycle
-50-2502550Durable goods 
consumption cycle
-10-50510
1994Q4
1996Q4
1998Q4
2000Q4
2002Q4
2004Q4
2006Q4
2008Q4
2010Q4
2012Q4
2014Q4
2016Q4Services 
consumption cycle
-10-50510
1994Q4
1996Q4
1998Q4
2000Q4
2002Q4
2004Q4
2006Q4
2008Q4
2010Q4
2012Q4
2014Q4
2016Q4Non-durable goods 
consumption cycleChart 7 Durable goods consumption cycle is in expansion phase 
due to declining debt burden from first -car scheme and increase in 
automobile demand due to launch of new models
Private consumption cycles classified by product categories
Percent
Source: NESDB, calculation by Bank of ThailandDeviation from trend (4Q moving average )PercentMonetary Policy Report March  2018  27 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
In the context where the economy was projected to steadily gain traction, with inflation 
remaining low due partly to supply -side and structural factors, and with pockets of financial 
stability ris ks in a prolonged low interest rate environment, the Committee assessed the 
need for policy accommodation in the first quarter of 2018 with details summarized as 
follows.  
Overall, the Thai economy was expected to steadily gain traction. In addition to 
expo rts, domestic demand would be additional growth driver, although it was not yet altogether 
sufficiently strong. Inflation was projected to edge up but at a slower pace than previously 
assessed due to supply -side factors. Risks to financial stability accumu lated in certain areas. 
The Committee  therefore had to weigh between sustaining economic growth in order to attain 
price stability and preserving financial stability. Ke y conclusions were as follows.  
1. Pursuing sustainable economic growth. The Thai econo my was expected to gain 
further traction where merchandise exports and tourism would continue to expand in line with 
stronger global economic growth; nonetheless, exchange rates could experience higher 
volatilities owing to external factors. Domestic deman d gained additional momentum, 
particularly private spending which was supported by government measures, but it would 
expand only gradually. This was because overall economic growth had yet to fully benefit 
household income and employment, with the positive  spillovers rather concentrated in the 
manufacturing sector and export -related businesses. Private consumption continued to 
expand due primarily to spending by middle and high -income household groups, while 
spending of low -income households did not fully r ecover. This was partly owing to declined 
agricultural prices, elevated debt levels, increased adoption of automation in place of human 
labor in the production process, and increased labor migration to the services sector with 
relatively lower wages. All t hese factors led to greater income disparities despite the overall 
improvement in the economy. Public expenditure remained a growth driver but there were 
risks of delayed disbursement which was partly due to the implementation of the Public 
Procurement and  Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560. However, the Committee viewed that 
monetary policy accommodation would help support the continuation of economic growth. The 
limited positive spillovers from economic expansion could be attributable to structural factor s, 
in which case agricultural and labor reforms as well as targeted measures would be more 
effective than monetary policy. In addition, the Thai economy would face greater downside 
risks from the external front that warranted close monitoring. Such risks i ncluded in particular 
U.S. foreign trade policy and possible retaliatory measures by major economies.     
2. Returning inflation to target in the medium term.  A decline in inflation in recent 
periods reflected low inflationary pressures (Chart 3.1) due par ticularly to a decline in cost -
push pressures because fresh food prices were expected to rise slower than previously 
assessed owing to the large supply in the market. However, headline inflation was projected 
to trend up in line with domestic demand growth  and expected to return to target within the 
first half of 2018. In addition, inflation expectations based on surveys of businesses and 
professional forecasters became more stabilized (Chart 3.2). The Committee viewed that 
demand -pull inflationary pressure s that remained low partly reflected domestic demand that 
was not yet strong. As a result, businesses faced constraints in raising prices. In addition, low Monetary Policy Report March  2018  28 inflation pressures were attributable to structural changes such as technological developments 
and e xpansion of e -commerce which led to lower costs of production and intensified price 
competition. Thus, the Committee saw the need to closely monitor and assess changes in 
inflation dynamics, as this could significantly affect the pace of inflation target f ulfillment and 
monetary policy conduct going forward.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Monitoring the buildup of financial stability risks . The Committee viewed that 
financial stability remained sound and with positive developments as reflected in private debt 
to GDP trending downward following economic growth. However, the buildup of 
vulnerabilities in certain areas continued and could result in abrupt adjustment in the financial 
system. Such vulnerabilities included, in particular,  debt serviceability  of households a nd 
SMEs that continued to deteriorate as benefits from the economic expansion had yet 
to fully extend to these economic sectors. NPLs of these groups remained high and 
household borrowing began to accelerate across almost all types of credit. Another 
vulne rability was continued search for yield in a prolonged low interest rate 
environment that could lead to underpricing of risks.  This was reflected in a continued 
expansion of foreign investment funds (FIFs) and high deposit growth in saving cooperatives, 
especially those with larger asset sizes and greater linkages with the Thai financial system. 
The third vulnerability was an oversupply of property, especially condominiums along the 
skytrain and mixed -use real estate projects. Overall, the Committee assesse d that these risks 
were manageable as over the recent periods regulatory authorities continued to enhance 
supervisory measures that prevent potential systematic risks. However, the Committee would 
closely monitor financial stability risks.  
 
 
-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Core inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.05, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.19, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.09, 0.11)Underlying inflation indicatorsChart 3.1 Underlying inflation indicators edged down , 
reflecting low inflation pressures
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of February 2018 , while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculation by Bank of Thailand
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)
Sources: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculation based on macro -finance term structure model with 
bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Percentage change from same period last yearChart 3.2 Short -and long -term inflation expectations 
became stabilized
Inflation expectationsMonetary Policy Report March  2018  29 The Committee  voted unanimously to keep the policy interest rate at 1.5 percent to 
maintain accommodative financial conditions in order to support a stronger economic 
growth and foster the return of inflation to target without causing the buildup of 
vulnerabilities to financial stability.  
The Committee weighed various factors in formulating the most appropriate 
course of monetary policy and voted unanimously at the meeting on February 14, 2018 
and later 6 to 1 at the meeting on March 28, 2018 to keep the policy rate un changed at 
1.50 percent. The Committee assessed that accommodative monetary policy would still be 
necessary to support a more robust growth in domestic demand which would foster the return 
of inflation to target and viewed that the policy rate at 1.50 perc ent would sufficiently facilitate 
accommodative financial conditions as reflected in low real interest rates. Moreover, New Loan 
Rate (NLR) that continued to trend down and bond yields that remained low led to sustained 
expansion of businesses financing th rough commercial banks and financial markets. 
Meanwhile, one Committee member voted to raise the policy rate by 0.25 percentage point to 
1.75 percent at the meeting on March 28, 2018 as the unusually low interest rates for a 
prolonged period might prompt h ouseholds and businesses to underestimate risks to potential 
changes in financial conditions. Furthermore, a gradual, timely reduction in monetary policy 
accommodation would not hinder economic growth or price stability; it would instead help 
alleviate ris ks to financial stability and facilitate a smooth process of monetary policy 
normalization.  
With regard to exchange rates, the baht appreciated due to the weakening of the US 
dollar as the dollar depreciating against major currencies and most emerging eco nomies 
currencies. However, the baht’s appreciation was stronger relative to many regional 
currencies given Thailand’s improved growth outlook as well as strong external positions as 
reflected in sustained current account surplus. The Committee viewed that  such current 
account surplus was partly attributable to structural changes. For instance, a significant 
decline in oil prices since 201  and China’s policy that allowed greater outflows of Chinese 
tourists abroad had led trade and services balances to con tinue recording large surpluses. 
These structural changes had called for policy coordination among related parties in order for 
the balance of payments to be more sustainable. These policies included, for instance, the 
acceleration of public investment pro jects, especially projects with plans to import machinery 
and raw materials, and facilitation for both Thai individual and institutional investors to invest 
more abroad. These would partly help reduce pressures on the baht. Going forward, exchange 
rates wo uld likely remain volatile due to uncertainties regarding the conduct of monetary and 
fiscal policies of major advanced economies. The Committee would thus continue to closely 
monitor developments in the foreign exchange markets and economic impacts.  
Given the environment where central banks of major economies and many regional 
countries started to consider reducing the degree of monetary policy accommodation, the 
Committee viewed that appropriate monetary policy should be formulated based on a holistic 
view of the likely impacts on the Thai economy. Raising the policy interest rate when domestic 
demand still had to rely on support from government measures could weigh on demand -pull 
inflationary pressures and lead to risks to price stability and the anchori ng of inflation 
expectations. In any case, with Thailand’s external positions remaining sound, there was a 
limited risk of abrupt capital flow reversals that could be induced by differences in Thai and 
foreign interest rates. Meanwhile, risks to financial stability in connection with a prolonged low Monetary Policy Report March  2018  30 interest rate environment were still manageable. Hence, monetary policy accommodation at 
the current policy interest rate could be maintained for some time.  
Looking ahead, the Committee viewed that the current degree of monetary policy 
accommodation should be maintained for some time in order to support a stronger 
economic growth which could foster a gradual return of headline inflation to target in 
the medium term. The Committee would stand ready to utilize ava ilable policy tools to foster 
the return of inflation to target in a timely manner while seeking to achieve sustainable 
economic growth and financial stability.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report March  2018  31 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
2016
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.3 3.9 3.0 3.4 3.9 4.3 4.0
Production
-2.5 6.2 -0.4 6.0 15.9 9.7 -1.3
3.8 3.7 3.5 3.2 3.0 4.0 4.6
Manufacturing 2.3 2.5 2.9 1.9 1.0 4.2 3.0
Construction 8.6 -2.3 6.9 3.2 -5.7 -1.6 -5.3
Wholesales and retail trade 5.3 6.3 5.8 5.9 6.0 6.4 6.9
Hotels and restaurants 9.9 8.5 4.9 5.1 7.0 6.9 15.3
Transport, storage, and communication 4.1 7.3 3.7 5.3 7.8 7.4 8.9
Financial intermediation 6.5 5.0 7.6 4.8 6.3 4.6 4.2
Real estate, renting, and business activities 3.2 4.6 3.2 3.8 4.2 4.7 5.6
Domestic demand 2.8 2.1 2.4 2.0 1.8 2.5 2.0
Private consumption 3.0 3.2 2.3 3.1 2.9 3.4 3.5
Private investment 0.5 1.7 -0.1 -1.1 3.0 2.5 2.4
Government consumption 2.2 0.5 2.9 -0.7 0.4 1.8 0.2
Public investment 9.5 -1.2 8.9 10.0 -6.9 -1.6 -6.0
Imports of goods and services -1.0 6.8 3.5 5.9 7.2 6.5 7.5
imports of goods -2.3 8.5 3.2 7.3 9.2 9.2 8.3
imports of services 4.6 -0.4 4.8 0.4 -1.0 -5.0 3.8
Exports of goods and services 2.8 5.5 1.8 2.7 5.1 6.9 7.4
exports of goods 0.3 5.6 1.6 2.8 4.9 8.2 6.6
exports of services 11.5 5.0 2.5 2.5 5.7 2.6 9.7
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars) 36.5 31.9 7.1 8.8 6.4 10.1 6.5
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 48.2 49.3 10.8 15.0 7.8 13.8 12.7
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars) -21.0 -19.2 -12.1 -7.0 -5.7 0.4 -6.8
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars) 171.9 202.6 171.9 180.9 185.6 199.3 202.6
Unemployment rate (%) 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.1
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%) n.a. n.a. 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.3
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of Thailand2017
ExpenditurePercent 2016 2017
GDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agricultureMonetary Policy Report March  2018  32  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Financial Stability Dashboard
2017
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan Feb
1. Financial market sector
0.6 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.2
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,542.9 1,753.7 1,575.1 1,574.7 1,673.2 1,753.7 1,721.4 1,697.4
Actual volatility of SET index1/14.2 6.5 7.0 4.8 5.8 7.9 8.2 10.1
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 18.6 19.1 17.4 16.3 17.9 19.1 18.6 18.3
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/4.4 3.3 3.5 3.9 2.9 2.8 4.2 5.3
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 106.2 110.6 108.7 109.8 111.2 112.9 114.1 114.8
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 100.6 103.6 102.7 102.8 104.2 105.7 106.0 n.a.
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR)4/6.26 6.20 6.26 6.20 6.20 6.20 6.20 6.20
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 18.0 18.2 17.8 17.9 18.4 18.2 n.a. n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 199.0 187.3 51.2 49.0 46.5 40.8 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 1.1 1.05 1.2 1.1 1.0 1.1 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 96.3 96.08 95.7 96.5 96.4 96.1 n.a. n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 79.0 77.53922 77.9 77.5 77.3 77.5 n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.7 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.7 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 2.9 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.2 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 3.7 2.6 4.1 3.4 2.8 2.6 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.6 2.7 2.5 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 8.2 8.3 8.5 7.3 8.5 8.1 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 6.5 6.6 6.2 6.0 6.4 7.8 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.7 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.5 1.8 1.6 1.8 1.7 1.8 n.a. n.a.
SMEs 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.6 4.4 n.a. n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 4 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisions2018
Indicators 2016 2017
Bond market
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Monetary Policy Report March  2018  33  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan Feb
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 61,452                 62,664     12244 15086 16,859     18,475     3,639        4,408        
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 13,409                 13,907     2802 3544 3,774        3,787        708            1,061        
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 20,187                 20,536     4315 4947 5,604        5,670        1,254        1,581        
 Condominiums 27,856                 28,221     5127 6595 7,481        9,018        1,677        1,766        
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 110,575              114,477   28,924     25,256     35,434     24,863     4,112        4,161        
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 19,433                 14,280     2,968        2,830        4,874        3,608        899            1,580        
Townhouses and commercial buildings 32,792                 36,571     11,183     7,665        9,831        7,892        1,023        1,903        
Condominiums 58,350                 63,626     14,773     14,761     20,729     13,363     2,190        678            
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 130.8 130.9 128.6 129.6 131.6 133.9 136.4 138.1
Townhouses (including land) 137.6 141.2 138.3 140.0 142.6 143.7 144.4 145.9
Condominiums 166.2 171.0 169.8 168.8 169.8 175.4 178.6 181.6
Land 171.2 171.7 171.3 164.2 172.9 178.3 176.9 177.2
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%) 40.8 41.2 41.7 41.3 41.9 41.2 41.4 n.a.
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%)6/11.7 10.8 13.8 7.1 11.9 10.4 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)7/32.5 35.2 33.2 34.0 35.5 35.2 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 132.2 149.0 136.2 140.3 148.1 149.0 155.9 153.7
Short-term (%) 41.2 41.9 40.5 39.4 40.9 41.9 41.7 41.5
Long-term (%) 58.8 58.1 59.5 60.6 59.1 58.1 58.3 58.5
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.3 3.3
Note:
6/ Current account / Nominal GDP at the same quarter
7/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDP2017 2018
Indicators 2016 2017Monetary Policy Report March  2018  34  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
> 9 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 3
8-9 0 0 1 2 3 2 3 3
7-8 0 1 3 6 6 5 6 6
6-7 2 5 8 11 10 9 9 9
5-6 11 15 15 16 15 13 13 12
4-5 31 25 21 19 17 16 15 14
3-4 34 25 21 17 17 16 15 14
2-3 18 17 16 13 13 14 13 13
1-2 4 8 10 8 9 10 10 10
0-1 0 2 4 4 5 7 7 7
(-1)-0 0 1 1 2 3 4 4 4
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2
(-3)-(-2) 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1
< (-3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1Percent2018 2019
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
> 4.0 0 0 0 1 2 3 3 3
3.5-4.0 0 0 1 1 2 3 3 3
3.0-3.5 0 1 3 3 4 5 4 4
2.5-3.0 0 3 5 5 6 7 7 6
2.0-2.5 1 9 9 7 8 9 9 8
1.5-2.0 5 16 13 10 11 11 11 10
1.0-1.5 18 20 15 12 12 12 11 11
0.5-1.0 30 19 15 12 12 11 11 11
0.0-0.5 26 15 13 12 11 10 10 10
(-0.5)-0.0 14 9 10 10 9 9 9 9
(-1.0)-(0.5) 5 5 7 9 8 7 7 7
(-1.5)-(1.0) 1 2 4 7 6 5 5 6
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 1 2 5 4 3 4 4
< -2.0 0 0 2 7 6 5 6 7Percent2018 2019Monetary Policy Report March  2018  35  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1
2.0-2.5 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5
1.5-2.0 0 2 4 6 8 10 11 12
1.0-1.5 6 18 19 17 19 20 20 20
0.5-1.0 56 44 34 27 26 25 24 23
0.0-0.5 36 29 27 25 23 21 20 19
(-0.5)-0.0 2 6 12 15 14 12 12 11
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 0 3 6 5 5 5 5
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 0 0 2 2 2 2 2
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
< -2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2018 2019Monetary Policy Report March  2018  36 4.2 Data pack  
Global Economy  
Thailand’s trading partner economies continued to expand and remained a key driver of Thai 
exports going forward. Nonetheless, downside risks to the growth forecast increased from 
U.S. foreign trade policy. Meanwhile, inflation remained low and was expected to slowly rise. 
As a result, most central banks maintained monetary policy accommodative stance. However, 
some central banks gradually reduced monetary policy accommodation in line with 
improvements in growth and inflation outlooks.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4550556065
201 201 201 2017 2018Euro area Japan U.S.Diffusion index
Feb 18
Sources: Bloomberg and EurostatManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
China’s economic indicators
(Change from same period last year)
Note: ( ) denotes share to total investment
Source : CEIC0102030
2013 201 201 201 2017 2018Retail sales Manufacturing
Total investment Investment in manufacturing (32%)
Investment in real estate (23%) Investment in infrastructure (9%)
Percent
Feb 18
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
2013 201 201 201 2017 2018Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
Philippines Thailand
Jan 18Asian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
2010201120122013201 201 201 20172018United States Euro Area Japan China Asia*Percent
Jan 18Inflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note: * Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, 
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report March  2018  37 Thai economy  
Economic growth continued to gain further traction, underpinned by strong merchandise 
exports and tourism  growth as well as gradual improvements in private spending. Moreover, 
government measures aimed at improving welfare of low -income households were an 
additional growth driver. Meanwhile, public expenditure would remain an economic driver, 
despite more -than-expected impacts from the Public Procurement and Supplies Management 
Act. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-10-5051015
Q1
2015Q2Q3 Q4Q1
2016Q2 Q3Q4 Q1
2017Q2Q3 Q4Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory 2/ GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/ 
Note: 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM )
2/ Change in inventory and statistical discrepancy
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board, 
calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price, and quantity
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2013 = 100)
859095100105110
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Value Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
calculation by Bank of Thailand
6090120150180
Oct Jan April JulThousandsFY2016 FY2017 FY2018
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulPublic spending by central government
Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
Billion baht
Sources: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy Office
050100150200250300
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Asia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaIndex of foreign tourists classified by nationality  
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2014 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of TourismMonetary Policy Report March  2018  38 Inflation  
Headline inflation was expected to rise more slowly than the previous estimate due to fresh 
food prices. Meanwhile, core inflation remained at a low level similar to the previous 
assessment, with one-year-ahead inflation expectations of businesses and professional 
forecasters stabilized.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Jan-Feb
2018
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflationContribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Jan-Feb
2018Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculation by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of February 2018 , while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.Underlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculation by Bank of Thailand-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2013Jul Jan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Core inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.03, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.00, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.01, 0.11)
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Sources: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
with bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Monetary Policy Report March  2018  39 Financial conditions  
Short -term money market rates remained low. Nonetheless, short -term government bond 
yields were below the policy interest rate due to limited bond supply and increased demand 
from foreign investors. Long -term government bond yields gradually rose in line with U.S. 
Treasury yields. Total corporate financing continued to increase through various channels. 
The baht appr eciated somewhat against the U.S. dollar, consistent with movements of most 
regional currencies due to U.S. dollar weakening. However, the baht appreciation was 
stronger relative to other regional currencies consistent with improving economic 
fundamentals . 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.Thai government bond yields
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)2016 2017 2018
Total corporate financing by instrument*
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Billion baht
Note: *Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bonds excluding commercial banks, 
and newly issued equities.-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2016Mar May JulSep Nov Jan
2017Mar May JulSep Nov Jan
2018Credit Bond Equity
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120
JanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanUSDTHB 
(RHS)Appreciation
NEER
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 27 March 2018)DXYBaht per U.S. dollar IndexThai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), Nominal Effective 
Exchange Rate (NEER), and Dollar Index (DXY)
2015 2016 2017 2018
-6%-4%-2%0%2%4%6%8%
PHP
INR
IDR
AUD
KRW
TWD
SGD
EUR
CNY
MYR
THB
GBP
JPY
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 27 Mar 2018)Percent
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollarCurrency movements vis -a-vis U.S. dollar
(27 Mar 2018 compared with 29 Dec 2017)Monetary Policy Report March  2018  40 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-earning (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand stayed close to the 
historical average. The P/E ratio of the Market for Alternative Investment (mai) remained high 
due to continued losses in agricultural and services sectors. New issuance  of unrated bonds 
continued to slow down since the end of 2016 after some defaults.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: household sector  
The ratio of household debt to GDP remained at a high level despite its continued declining. 
Deleveraging was mostly concentrated among high -income households. On the other hand, debt 
serviceability of households deteriorated as reflected in a higher NPL ratio in mortgage loans. This 
issue warranted monitoring going  forward.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand (as of February 2018 )Current price -to-earning ratio and turnover ratio  of SET 
and mai
020406080100120
020406080100
Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 Sep-16 Mar-17 Sep-17SET turnover ratio mai turnover ratio
SET P/E ratio (RHS) mai P/E ratio (RHS)times
Average P/E of mai (2012 -2016)
Average P/E of SET ( 2012 -2016 )Percent
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Corporate bonds outstanding
9 91966117127 128 89
79 
68
68 67 
050100150
01,0002,0003,000
2011
2012
2013
201 
201 
201 
2017/Q1
2017/Q2
2017/Q3
2017/Q4
Jan-18
Feb-18Unrated
Non-investment grade
B group
A group
Number of companies issuing unrated bond  (RHS)Billion baht
(3.3%)
(1.4%)
(0.6%)
(0.4%)
(1.4%)Number of companies 
issuing unrated bonds
(4.6%)(4.0%)(3.2%)(2.6%)(2.5%)(2.4%)(2.4%)
Note:  ( ) represents percent of unrated bonds in total corporate bonds
505560657075808590
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
2012 2013 201 201 201 201778.4Household debt1/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
Source: Bank of ThailandPercent of GDP2/
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans (NPL) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
Percent
3.2
1.62.6
2.5
0.01.02.03.04.05.06.0
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2011 2012 2013 201 201 201 2017Consumer (Total) Home Auto Credit card PersonalMonetary Policy Report March  2018  41 Stability: corporate sector  
Overall stability in the corporate sector remained sound. Continued economic growth 
benefited financial positions of the corporate sector. As a result, profitability and debt 
serviceability of businesses improved. However, debt serviceability of small ente rprises still 
deteriorated. Some businesses still incurred losses especially in manufacturing and services 
sectors.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand8.1
6.3
456789
Q1 
2014Q2 
2014Q3 
2014Q4 
2014Q1 
2015Q2 
2015Q3 
2015Q4 
2015Q1 
2016Q2 
2016Q3 
2016Q4 
2016Q1 
2017Q2 
2017Q3 
2017Q4 
2017Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Percent
Note: *Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.Operating Profit Margin (OPM) and Return on Assets (ROA)*
-10-8-6-4-2024
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Q4 2017
Smallest (Quintile 1) Small (Quintile 2)
Medium (Quintile 3) Large (Quintile 4)
Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandInterest coverage ratio TimesDebt serviceability at 25th percentile of each group of 
firm size
Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR), classified by sectors 
Times
Note: * production exclude Petroleum and chemicals
Source : Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand-5.0-3.0-1.01.03.05.07.09.011.0
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q3/2015
Q2/2016
Q1/2017
Q4/2017
Q2/2015
Q1/2016
Q4/2016
Q3/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q3/2015
Q2/2016
Q1/2017
Q4/2017
Q2/2015
Q1/2016
Q4/2016
Q3/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Commerce Production
(exc.petro)Construction Real Estate Utilities Services OverallPercentile 25 Percentile 50 Linear trend
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)3.0
1.84.4
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Total corporate loan Large corporate loan SME loan
Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
Q4
2.3
1.92.8
0123
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Q4Monetary Policy Report March  2018  42 Stability: real estate  
Demand for residences gradually expanded in line with economic conditions, as reflected in 
the number of residential units with newly approved loans that increased above the historical 
average. On the supply side, both newly opened low -rise and condominium residential units 
steadily declined since last year after the acceleration du ring the middle of last year. 
Meanwhile, prices of all real estate types trended upward.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1
Average* 5.3
012345678910
01020304050607080
2017
201 
Jan-16
Mar-16
May-16
Jul-16
Sep-16
Nov-16
Jan-17
Mar-17
May-17
Jul-17
Sep-17
Nov-17
Jan-18
Low-rise Condominium Average TotalResidential units in Bangkok and vicinity with 
approved mortgages by commercial banks
Thousand units
Source: Bank of ThailandThousand units, 3 -month moving average 
and seasonally adjusted
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Note: *Average during 2011 -2017, excluding periods with 
government’s stimulus measures (November 201 -April 2016)
New residential projects launched in Bangkok and vicinity
Thousand unitsThousand units
3-month moving average
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), calculation by Bank of Thailand02468101214
0102030405060708090100
201 
201 
Jan-16
Mar-16
May-16
Jul-16
Sep-16
Nov-16
Jan-17
Mar-17
May-17
Jul-17
Sep-17
Nov-17
Jan-18
Low-rise Condominium Total AverageAverage     
Note: *Monthly average during 2011 -2017, excluding the flood period 
(July -December 2011)
Condominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinity and ‘time to go’
Thousand units Months
Note: ‘Time to go’ is the time taken for all real estate inventory to be sold, 
using the average sales rate over the past 12 months.
Source: AREA and calculation by Bank of Thailand77
18
020406080
020406080100
2011
2012
2013
201 
201 
201 
2017Condominium inventory
Time to go (RHS)
138.1145.9181.6
177.2
100110120130140150160170180190
2013Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2014Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2015Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2016Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2017Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Jan 2018
Feb 2018Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate prices
Index ( 2009 = 100)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March  2018  43 Stability: financial institutions  
The financial system remained sound with high levels of provisions and capital buffers. In the 
fourth quarter of 2017, credit growth accelerated especially among business loans given to 
SMEs in trade sector and consumer loans for auto leasing purposes. Meanwhile, the NPL ratio 
slightly edged down, partly due to credit portfolio adjustments by financial ins titutions at the 
end of the year.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
%
2.65
1.943.98
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Total NPL (%) Large Corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%)Non-performing loan (NPL)
Source: Bank of Thailand    2018
Q4 Q Q 
SME 4.35         
Total 2.83         
Consumer             
Large     1.69 1.75
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
3235444447
150.4166.2171.9
100120140160180
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
20170102030405060
Loan loss provisions (RHS) Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
16.318.5 18.2
11.8 15.815.6
4.5
2.7 2.6
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of Thailand
Credit growth in commercial bank system
%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumer2016 2017
Q4 Q3 Q4
Large corporate -1.0 4.2 0.0
Consumer 4.9 5.6 6.1
Total 2.0 3.3 4.4
SME 1.8 2.4 5.7
Corporate 0.6 2.2 3.6Monetary Policy Report March  2018  44 Stability: external position  
Thailand’s external stability remained strong due to a low level of external debt relative to an 
international benchmark with high level of international reserves relative to short -term debt.   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remai ned sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP stayed below the fiscal 
sustainability  threshold.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
050100150200250300
0102030405060
200 
2010
2011
2012
2013
201 
201 
201 
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4Long-term debt (RHS)
Short-term debt (RHS)
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48%Billion U.S. dollar Percent
Source: Bank of ThailandReserve to short -term debt ratio
012345
200 
200 
2007
2008
200 
2010
2011
2012
2013
201 
201 
201 
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4
Feb-18Feb 2018 = 3.3Time
Percent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability (60%)Public debt to GDP ratio
43.4 43.940.8 41.7 41.3 41.9 41.2 41.4
0204060
201 201 201 Q1-17 Q2-17 Q3-17 Q4-17 Jan-18
Other government agencies Financial state-owned enterprises
Non-financial state-owned enterprises Advance borrowing for debt restructuring
FIDF compensation Public government’s direct borrowing
Public debt to GDP
External
4.3%
Domestic
95.7%Outstanding debt as of January 2018
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from remaining 
duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
10.9%
Long -term 
89.1% 
