 
Monetary Policy Report  June  2018 
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
June  2018 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Porametee Vimolsiri  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Kanit Sangsubhan  Member  
Mr. Subhak Siwaraksa  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  June  2018 
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 8. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardizing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reas ons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  5 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions for trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Oil prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ............................  10 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ........................  10 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ........  18 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
3. Monetary Policy  Decision  ................................ ................................ .................  24 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
BOX : Thailand’s structural economic issues and economic policy coordination  
BOX : The Impact of exchange rates on the Thai Economy  
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  41 
4.1 Table s ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  41 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Data  Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  46 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   Monetary Policy Report June  2018  1 Executive Summary  
Monetary Policy Conduct in the Second  Quarter of 2018  
The Committee assessed that the Thai economy continued to gain further traction and would achieve higher 
growth than previously assessed, driven by both domestic and external demand. Headline inflation was projected 
to increase  toward target slightly faste r than the previous assessment on the back of rising global oil prices. 
Demand -pull inflationary pressures edged up somewhat but remained at a low level. Financial stability remained 
sound but there remained a need to monitor pockets of risks that might po se vulnerabilities to financial stability in 
the future. The Committee weighed various factors in determining the most appropriate course of 
monetary policy and voted unanimously (6 to 0) and later 5 to 1 to maintain the policy rate at 1.50 percent 
at the meetings on May 16 and June 20, 2018 , respectively.  In deliberating their decision, the Committee 
judged that accommodative monetary policy stance would remained a key supporting factor to help sustain 
domestic demand  growth , which would in turn foster  headline inflation to gradually rise and move within the target 
in a sustainable manner. Under the Committee’s assessment, the policy rate at 1.50 percent would be sufficiently 
accommodative . The new loan rates (NLR) continued to stay at low levels  and r ecent rising government bond 
yields had a limited impact on financing costs of the private sector. Meanwhile, one Committee member voted to 
raise the policy rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.75 percent at the June meeting , with the view that  the economic 
recovery was sufficiently robust and inflation was expected to remain within target throughout the projection period, 
and that the prolonged monetary accommodation  might induce households and businesses to underestimate risks 
to potential chan ges in financial conditions. Thus, it would be appropriate to increase the policy rate at this time in 
order to start building policy space for potential use in the future.  
Looking ahead, the Committee viewed that, should economic expansion continue and i nflation move more firmly 
within target, the need for currently extra accommodative monetary policy would start to be reduced, and that the 
need for a policy rate increase in order to build policy space in the future would be increasing . 
Assessments of the  Economic and Inflation Outlooks a s the Basis for Policy Formulation  
1. Global Economy  
The global economy was projected to continue expanding amid tightening financial conditions and rising 
oil prices.  Advanced economies would expand on the back of domestic demand. The U.S. economy would be 
supported by strong economic fundamentals including strong  labor market, robust  consumer confidence, and fiscal 
stimulus, despite some impact s from China’s trade ret aliatory measures. The euro area and Japanese economies 
would be supported by continued accommodative monetary policy , although the first quarter saw some slowdown in 
consumption due to unusually cold  weather. China continued expanding but growth would sli ghtly slow  down due to 
economic reforms. According to preliminary assessments, the U.S. trade protectionism  measures were expected to 
have some effects on Chinese exports and the overall economy to some extent. Meanwhile, other Asian economies 
were project ed to grow faster than previously estimated owing to robust domestic demand and export growth, which 
were in line with global demand and international trade. The Committee, therefore, revised up the growth forecast 
for Thailand’s trading partners from 3.7 percent to 3.8 percent in 2018.  Yet, there remained  risks to be monitored , 
including  (1) intensifying trade retaliations betwe en the U.S. and major economies  that could undermine trade 
volume, investment climate , and spur financial market volatility  and (2) geopolitical risks which continued to create 
uncertainty that might affect the global economy and financial markets.  
While most central banks maintained accommodative monetary policy stance, the U.S. Federal Reserve 
(Fed) and some central banks in the  region increased their policy rates.  For instance, central banks of the 
Philippines and Indonesia raised interest rates to curb inflation and volatility in the financial markets. In addition, 
other central banks in the region started to signal changes in monetary policy stance given  improved economic 
growth and rising inflation toward target. Such conditions would facilitate monetary policy normalization in the 
period ahead.  
Global financial markets remained volatile. Emerging markets experienced capital outflows as foreign 
investors reduced their investment s in risky assets.  The 10 -year U.S. treasury yields reached the highest Monetary Policy Report June  2018  2 point in the past four years. The  number of  Fed’s rate hike s this year was expected to increase to four instead of 
three. In addition, t rade retaliatory measures between the U.S. and major economies were intensified. These 
events increased risks to emerging markets, especially those with weaker economic  fundamentals such as 
Argentina and  Turkey.  
2. Financial Conditions and Fina ncial Stability  
Thailand’s financial conditions remained accommodative.  Short -term Thai government bond yields rose toward 
the policy rate due to a greater supply of bonds and lower demand from foreign investors. Meanwhile, medium - and 
long-term bond yields increased mainly due to external factors as well as Thai economic and  inflation outturns which 
were better than market expectations . Interest rates on new loans remained at a low level, while private credit 
expanded as seen in both corporate and households sectors. Business es continued to seek funding through both 
debt and equity instruments. The Thai baht depreciated from the previous quarter, in line with regional currencies, as 
the U.S. dollar strengthened. In addition, the depreciation was due to a seasonal factor in the second quarter during 
which foreign corporates and  investors in Thailand repatriated their dividends back to their home countries. The real 
effective exchange rate (REER) strengthened because Thailand’s inflation increased faster than that of trading 
partner economies.  
Financial stability remained sound but there existed pockets of risks that warranted monitoring.  These 
included, first, the search for yield behavior which persisted in the  prolonged low interest rate environment  that could 
lead to increased underpric ing of  risks. For example , concentration  of investment by foreign investment funds in 
certain countries and large expansions of assets and deposits of saving cooperatives despite some slowdown after 
the revision of regulations to upgrade supervision practices. Second, volatility of international  capital flows and the 
global financial markets could trigger yield snapbacks and affect roll -overs of short -term corporate bonds. Third, 
overall credit quality remained unchanged but deteriorated among some households and businesses, especially 
households  with large debt burden and smaller SMEs with weak financial positions. Fourth, there continued to be an 
excess supply of properties of certain price ranges and in some areas. This was particularly the case for 
condominiums with price s below three million baht whose supply remained high and would take  some  time to sell.  
3. Economic and Inflation Outlook  
The Thai economy was projected to continue expanding at 4.4 and 4.2 percent  in 2018 and 2019 , 
respectively , higher than assessed at 4.1 percent for both years in the previous Monetary Policy Report . The 
upward revision was on the back of a continued improvement in merchandise exports and tourism , in tandem with 
global trade volume and trading partners’ economies, as well as higher -than-expected private con sumption and 
private investment growth.  
Merchandise exports continued to expand across various product categories and almost all export 
destinations.  The value of merchandise exports in 2018 was revised to grow 9.0 percent, up from 7.0 percent 
assessed in  the previous quarter, with expected growth in both price and quantity  terms . Export prices  was 
projected to trend up in line with crude oil prices , especially for commodities and oil -related products . Export volume 
would continue to expand across various product categories, particularly electronics, auto parts, and processed 
agricultural products, in tandem with expansion in global trade volume and trading partner economies. Moreover, 
import value would continue to rise  in line with (1) increased demand for raw materials and intermediate goods, 
capital goods , and machinery as private investment  improved  and (2) higher oil prices. Nevertheless, t he 
Committee assessed that intensifying  trade retaliation between the U.S. and major economies , which could  put 
pressures on investment and international trade , would directly and indirectly affect Thai exports . Thus, the 
Committee would closely monitor and assess potential impact s going forward.  
Exports of services in 2018 were expected to be slightly higher than the previous assessment due mainly 
to a higher number of foreign tourists. The projection of the number of foreign tourists was revised up to 38.3 
million in 2018, up from the previous fo recast of 37.6 million. The upward revision was due to continued growth of 
Chinese tourists for both tour group s and free and independent travelers (FIT) , who had high purchasing power , 
and newly opened direct flights from second -tier Chinese cities to Tha iland. In addition, recent management by 
airlines and airports also helped alleviate airport capacity constraints in accommodating  the rising number of 
tourists. For instance, there were additional  flights during off -peak times and higher utilization of regional airports.  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  3 Private consumption was projected to gain traction from the previous period , supported mainly by non -farm 
households, especially middle - and high -income households whose earnings continued to rise. Meanwhile, 
earnings of low -income househ olds started to improve following stronger employment particularly in construction 
and services sectors. Farm income expanded on the back of higher production , while agricultural prices of certain 
crops that lingered at  low levels would remain a major drag on farm income. Moreover,  government measures —
such as the social welfare card project (second phase), the community enterprise development project, and 
agricultural reform project —would support purchasing power going forward. However, elevated  household debt 
would cause households to allocate part of their in come for debt repayment . In addition,  ongoing  structural 
changes in the labor market would continue to weigh on private consumption  growth . 
Public spending remained a driver of economic gro wth, with some investment projects postponed to 
2019 . Public consumption would continue expanding despite smaller projected  outlays  due to the change in the 
government budget structure for fiscal year 2019, with a larger share of capital spending compared with the 
previous announcement. Although the re was  additional  fiscal  budget in 2018, this would not compensate for  the 
moderation in public consumption due to  the change in the 2019 budget structure . Public investment in 2018 was 
revised downward due to de layed investment by some state -owned enterprises following difficulties in accessing  
construction sites and some construction problems . In any case , public investment in 2019 was revised up due to 
the following reasons. First, a larger share of the governm ent budget for fiscal year 2019 was allocated to capital 
spending compared with the previous announcement . Second, some investment spending would be carried over 
from 2018. Third, disbursement plans for the dual -track railway project became more certain.  
Private investment was projected to achieve higher growth than previously assessed , in line with growth of 
merchandise exports and private consumptio n, due to  following factors. First, capacity utilization rose across 
various  industries , such as automobile s and food and beverages . Second, import volume of capital goods and 
machinery increased. Third, demand for private credits extended to businesses increased. Forth, investment plans 
of large corporates became more certain. Fifth, government measures such a s the community enterprise 
development and agricultural reform projects would support low -income households. Sixth, the value of investment 
application submitted to the Board of Investment continued to trend up. Moreover, government infrastructure 
investme nt projects, the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), and public -private partnership projects (PPP) that were 
increasingly taking shape would shore up business confidence , foster investment climate , and  attract greater 
foreign investment. However, developments  of such investment projects would warrant monitoring going forward.  
Headline inflation was projected to rise at a faster pace than the previous assessment  on the back of 
acceleration in prices of energy -related products in tandem with global crude oil pr ices. However, government 
regulations  on energy -related prices partly curbed the increase in costs of transportation and prepared food. Fresh 
food prices were projected to grow at lower rates  following  a larger -than-expected supply of meat, fruits, and 
vegetables. Moreover, demand -pull pressures rose  only slightly  due to the fact that benefits from economic growth 
was not yet sufficiently broad -based and  that there continued to be  sales promotion offered by businesses. In 
addition, structural changes —such a s developments of production technology and higher business competition —
still put downward pressures on inflation. Thus, the Committee saw the need to study the impact of such factors 
on inflation dynamics in further details as this could have significant implications on determining  the inflation target 
in the future. The Committee therefore projected headline inflation to average 1.1 and 1.2 percent in 2018 
and 2019 , respectively, while core inflation was projected to average 0.7 and 0.9 percent in 2018 and 2019 , 
respectively.   
Risks to the growth projection were expected to tilt more downward than previous ly assess ed. The 
increased downside risks  were mainly due to e xternal factors. First, U.S. trade protectionism measures, retaliation 
by major economies, and intensifying competition resulted from trade diversion could have greater -than-expected 
impacts on Thai exports and private investment. Second, growth of Thailan d’s trading partner economies might  
be lower than expected in case  of intensifying  global geopolitical tensions. Moreover, certain domestic factors also 
posed downside risks to the baseline projection. First, private consumption growth might be lower -than-expected 
as domestic purchasing power had yet to recover in a broad -based manner. Second, the enforcement of the Public 
Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 2560 could lead to longer -than-expected delay in budget 
disbursement of some government ag encies. Nonetheless, on the upside, there were possibilities that the growth 
outturn might be higher than the baseline projection. First, growth of trading partner economies might be higher  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  4 than expected given the U.S. economy continued  to improve  and the Chinese growth that could slow  down at a 
slower pace  than expected should the Chinese government implement additional economic stimulus measures. 
Second, domestic spending could be higher than the baseline assessment due to government infrastructure 
investment projects, public -private partnership (PPP), as well as government measures aimed at stimulating 
private spending. Risks to the headline and core inflation projection s were expected to tilt more downward 
than the previou s assessment  consistent with the risks to the growth forecast.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report June  2018  5 1. Global Economy  
Major advanced economies were projected to continue expanding. Despite a temporary 
slowdown during the first quarter of 2018, consumption would likely regain its growth 
momentum following domestic demand and robust economic fundamentals. However, 
risks inc reased from U.S. trade protectionism measures and intensifying retaliation from 
major economies, and hence warranted monitoring.   
The U.S. economy would continue to record strong growth.  Despite a temporary 
slowdown in private consumption during the first  quarter  due to unusually cold weather and 
delayed tax refunds, the overall economy continued to improve going forward.  Private 
consumption would likely expand on the back of strong labor market, robust consumer 
confidence and a continued fiscal stimulus w hich would support economic activities amid 
higher long -term U.S. treasury yields and oil prices. In addition, the assessment of U.S. 
economic growth took into account some impact from China’s trade retaliatory measures.  
Euro area economies were projected to exhibit a slightly slower growth than the 
previous assessment.  This was due to declined consumption in the first quarter of 2018 after 
accelerating in earlier periods and sentiment which was hampered by uncertainties 
surrounding U.S. trade measures and politics in the euro area. Nevertheless, a number of 
factors would support the continuation of economic growth going forward: continued 
accommodative monetary policy, steady expansion of global trade, recovering labor markets, 
as well as robust consumer co nfidence despite being partially affected by political uncertainties.  
Meanwhile, Japan’s economic growth was expected to be lower than the previous 
estimate.  This was attributed to low private consumption and production during the first 
quarter as a result  of unusually cold weather, rising vegetable prices, and decelerating 
exports. However, robust consumer confidence and strong labor market would help drive 
economic growth in the period ahead, while exports were expected to expand in tandem with 
continued improvements in global trade (Chart 1.1).  
The Chinese economy would continue to expand, while other Asian economies were 
projected to grow faster than previously estimated on the back of domestic demand. 
Meanwhile, exports continued to record strong growth  in line with global demand and 
global trade.  
The Chinese economy was expected to gain further traction despite some 
slowdown following the government’s economic reforms.  Over the recent periods, 
Chinese authorities tightened financial regulations, includi ng measures to curb speculation in 
the real estate sector, to manage risks arising from shadow banking, as well as to tighten 
credit standards on credits to local government.  Such measures led to tighten liquidity 
conditions and started to weigh on economi c activities.  The government then shifted its focus 
towards the continuation of economic growth and liquidity by cutting the reserve requirement 
ratio (RRR), value -added taxes, and automobile import tariffs in order to stimulate private 
spending. Meanwhile , according to the preliminary assessments, U.S. trade protectionism 
measures were expected to have an impact on Chinese exports and the overall economy to 
some extent. Such impact would be closely monitored and assessed as there were considerable  
uncertai nties.  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  6 Asian economies (excluding Japan and China) would exhibit a higher growth 
than the previous assessment , owing to better -than-expected growth outturns in the first 
quarter of 2018. In particular, private consumption accelerated in several economies such as 
Hong Kong, Malaysia, and Singapore, and exports continued to grow across various product 
categories. In the period ahead, private consumption  would still be supported by  steady 
improvements in consumer confidence, strengthening labor markets in sev eral countries, and 
government policies such as the abolishment of goods and services taxes (GST) in Malaysia. 
Meanwhile, the impact of rising oil prices on the economy would be limited as some countries 
imposed energy -price subsidies.  Nevertheless, despit e being on the rising trend (Chart 1.2),  
exports might slow down somewhat in the period ahead after accelerating in earlier periods, 
particularly for smartphone -related electronic products. In the financial market, rising U.S.  
long-term bond yields over th e recent periods had an impact on some Asian financial markets. 
However, most countries still had sound external stability and could cushion against short -term 
volatilities.  
 
 
The growth outlook for Thailand’s trading partners was revised up, but risks to the growth 
projection were expected to tilt downward.  
Trading partners’ economies would likely be stronger than the assessment in the 
previous Monetary Policy Report . This was  due to better -than-expected economic outturns of 
several countries in the first quarter of 2018, coupled with growth momentum in the period 
ahead driven by consumption and investment that would benefit from fiscal policies. The 
Committee, therefore, revis ed up the growth forecast for Thailand’s trading partners to 3.8 
percent in 2018 on the back of robust economic fundamentals of advanced economies and 
accelerating growth in Asia. Meanwhile, the growth forecast for 2019 was expected to remain 
close to the previous estimate at 3.6 percent (Table 1.1).  
The Committee assessed that risks to growth of Thailand’s trading partners would tilt 
to the downside based on the following factors. First, U.S. trade protectionism measures could 
lead to intense retaliatory a ctions by major economies such as China, Canada, Mexico and 
the euro area, which could cause a direct impact on global and Thai trade volume through 
supply chain linkages and an indirect impact such as decelerating business investment due 
to heightened unc ertainties. Second, geopolitical risks remained despite easing tensions in 
-12-10-8-6-4-20246
8090100110120130140
 015  01  01  018U.S. Euro area (RHS) Japan (RHS)Chart 1.1 Consumer confidence in advanced economies 
continued to improve
Diffusion index * Deviation from par*
Note :*Euro area’s par = 0 and Japan’s par = 50
Source: Bloomberg
5060708090100110120130140
 013  01  015  01  01  018Electronics(40.0%) Other Manufacturing products (21.6%)
Commodites (20.6%) Machinery (5.9%)
Transportation (10.7%) Food (1.2%)Apr18Chart 1.2 Asian exports continued to improve and expand 
across various product categories
Asian exports value* classified by product categories
Index, sa(Jan 2013 = 100 )
Note: *Asian exports include Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore. 
( ) share of total exports in 2017
Commodity -related products include crude oil , metals, chemicals, rubber, and 
vegetable oil.
Other manufacturing products include textile, papers, furniture, footwear and 
miscellaneous 
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report June  2018  7 the Korean Peninsula. This was due to concerns over the situation in Iran which warranted 
close monitoring as this could heighten volatility in the financial and commodity markets, as 
well as the real economic sector. Third, China’s economic and financial stability problems 
continued to be monitored in the face of some progress given improved supervision of the 
Chinese government.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Central banks maintained an accommodative monetary policy stance. However, the U.S. 
and some Asian central banks hiked their policy interest rates.  
Most central banks maintained an accommodative monetary policy stance. The 
European Central Bank (ECB) anno unced to extend its net asset purchases until the end of 
December 2018 and that purchases would then end, and expect to maintain its policy interest 
rate at least through the summer of 2019. Meanwhile, the Federal Reserve (Fed) continued 
to normalize monet ary policy by raising the federal funds rate at the meeting in June 2018 in 
line with market expectations.  Nevertheless, the U.S. economic expansion and tightening 
labor market would support upward pressures on inflation going forward. Therefore, the 
number of Fed’s rate hikes was expected to increase to four instead of three in  018. Some 
central banks in Asia also raised their policy rates. In May 2018, the central bank of the 
Philippines (BSP) increased its policy interest rate to curb inflation, while B ank of Indonesia 
(BI) hiked the rate twice to manage volatility in the financial market. In addition, other central 
banks in the region started to signal changes in monetary policy stance given the continuation 
of economic growth and rising inflation towar d target, which would facilitate monetary policy 
normalization in the period ahead.  
Global financial markets were volatile. During the second quarter of 2018, emerging 
markets experienced capital outflows as foreign investors reduced their investments in 
risky assets. This was attributable to a surge in 10 -year U.S. treasury yields which reached 
the highest point in the past four years, expectations of Fed’s policy rate hikes, and 
Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partner growth
Annual change (%YoY) Weight (%) 2017* 2018 2019
United States 14.9 2.3 2.7 (2.7) 2.4 (2.4)
Euro area 10.0 2.6 2.2 (2.3) 2.0  (2.0)
Japan 13.6 1.7 1.2 (1.5) 1.0 (1.0)
China 15.7 6.9 6.6 (6.6) 6.4 (6.4)
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 37.4 4.6 4.4 (4.2) 4.3 (4.3)
Total***  100 3.9 3.8 (3.7) 3.6 (3.6)
Note: *Outturn
* Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to   trading partners in  01 , namely 
Singapore (6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia (8.0%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), 
South Korea (2.8%), and the Philippines (3.7%)        
** Weighted by a share of exports from Thailand to 13 trading partners in 2014 (including the 
United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) as reported in Monetary Policy Report, March 2018Monetary Policy Report June  2018  8 intensified trade retaliation between the U.S. and major economies. Therefor e, risks in 
emerging markets increased, especially those with weak economic fundamentals such as 
Argentina and Turkey.  
Since late April 2018, emerging markets (EMs) started to experience capital outflows 
mainly in debt markets, the extent of which depende d on each country’s economic 
fundamental. Foreign investors reduced their investments in risky assets as 10 -year U.S. 
treasury yields rose to more than 3 percent in some periods and reached the highest point in 
the past four years following rising U.S. inf lation expectations and oil prices, as well as the 
improved U.S. economic outlook. The investors, therefore, gained more confidence on the 
U.S. economy and over Fed’s policy rate hikes. However, capital outflows from EM Asia 
decelerated during late May aft er investor sentiment toward EM Asia improved and some 
central banks in the region raised their policy rates. With regard to equity markets, investors 
reduced their investment in EMs, partly as fundamentals of equity markets in advanced 
economies were stro nger and had better outlooks than those in Asia.  
In June, capital outflows from EMs 
accelerated in both debt and equity markets, 
due to the possibility that the Fed would hike 
federal funds rates sooner than market 
expected and risks from intensified trade  
retaliation between the U.S. and major 
economies. However, countries with weaker 
economic fundamentals faced a greater 
impact of capital outflows such as Argentina 
and Turkey. In particular, EMs in Latin -
America were more affected than those  
in Asia.  
Looking ahead, global financial markets  
would likely remain volatile. International 
capital flows could move both into and out of 
Thailand given uncertainties on the external front regarding monetary, fiscal and trade policies 
of major advanced economies, ge opolitical risks, risks in EMs perceived by investors, as well 
as oil price movements. These factors could affect economic conditions of each country and 
directions of capital flows going forward.  
Crude oil prices continued to rise in the second quarter o f 2018 owing to a higher -than-
expected decline in oil supply and investors’ concern over the supply adequacy. However, 
going forward, crude oil prices were projected to decline somewhat thanks to a gradual 
increase in crude oil supply from both OPEC and no n-OPEC producers, especially after 
the termination of production cut agreement by the end of this year.  
In the second quarter of 2018, the Dubai crude oil prices steadily increased from 
the previous quarter , as crude oil stock ran down significantly, promp ting global demand and 
supply to reach the equilibrium level faster than expected. In addition, investors were 
concerned about the adequacy of oil supply in the short run. The decline in oil stock was 
mainly attributed to the compliance with the production  cut agreement among OPEC and non -
-0.500.511.522.533.5
-4,000-2,00002,0004,0006,000
1-Jun-17
15-Jun-17
29-Jun-17
13-Jul-17
27-Jul-17
10-Aug-17
24-Aug-17
7-Sep-17
21-Sep-17
5-Oct-17
19-Oct-17
2-Nov-17
16-Nov-17
30-Nov-17
14-Dec-17
28-Dec-17
11-Jan-18
25-Jan-18
8-Feb-18
22-Feb-18
8-Mar-18
22-Mar-18
5-Apr-18
19-Apr-18
3-May-18
17-May-18
31-May-18
14-Jun-18Equity
Debt
US 10-year Treasury yield (RHS)Chart  .3 Emerging markets experienced capital outflows 
owing to U.S. 10-year Treasury yield that reached the 
highest point over the past four years, investors’ 
expectation on Fed’s policy rate, and intensifying trade 
retialations between U.S. and major economies
Note: *EMs includes Thailand, Indonesia, India, South Africa, and Turkey
Sources:  Bloomberg and  Institute of International FinanceCapital inflows to EMs*  (weekly)
Million USD %U.S. 10 -year Treasury yield 
reached 3 % the highest point 
over the past four yearsMonetary Policy Report June  2018  9 OPEC producers and a significant reduction in Venezuela’s oil production due to economic 
crisis. Meanwhile, demand for crude oil continued to rise consistent with global economic 
expansion. Nevertheless, going forward, cru de oil prices were expected to decline 
somewhat  owing to rising crude oil supply by U.S. shale oil producers as well as possibly 
greater oil production in order to prevent a price surge in the global market. However, oil prices 
would not fall by a large ex tent as they would still be shored up by steadily growing demand 
following expanded global economy.   
As declining oil stock led global demand and supply to reach the equilibrium 
level sooner than expected, the Committee therefore revised up the projection for 
Dubai crude oil prices throughout the forecast horizon. Oil prices were revised up from 
62.4 to 69.2 U.S. dollars per barrel in 2018, and from 63.0 to 68.3 percent U.S. dollars per 
barrel in 2019. Risks to the projection were adjusted to be balanced in stead of tilting upward 
in the previous projection. Geopolitical risks in the Middle East and the Korean Peninsula 
might result in higher -than-expected oil prices in some periods. Meanwhile, crude oil prices 
might be lower than the forecast should producti on increased more than anticipated, either 
from countries participating in the oil production cut agreement or U.S. shale oil producers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 1.4 Dubai crude oil price in 2018Q2 continued to increase from the 
previous quarter, as the oil stock decreased toward equilibrium level and 
investors were concerned about the adequacy of oil supply in the short run
020406080100120140
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Q1
2020   Upper bound          Lower bound       March 2018             June 2018U.S. dollar/barrelMonetary Policy Report June  2018  10 2. The Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent Developments   
The Thai economy continued to gain further traction driven by the external sector and 
gradual improvements in domestic demand.  
The Thai economy expanded 4.8 percent in the  first quarter of 2018 , driven mainly 
by a robust expansion of merchandise exports a cross all major export destinations and almost 
all product categories in tandem with continued improvements in trading partner economies. 
Exports of services also recorded robust growth on the back of increased foreign tourists in 
almost all groups, partic ularly Chinese tourists which expanded owing to increasing number 
of flights from secondary cities in February. The number of Russian and Indian tourists also 
increased. Private consumption continued expanding, especially spending on services and 
durable g oods, in line with improved consumer confidence and expansion in consumer loans. 
The main supporting factor was strong purchasing power of medium -to-high income 
households. In addition, inflation and the policy rate remained low. Meanwhile, government’s 
social welfare card scheme helped reduce households’ burden on spending to some extent. 
Private investment improved both from investment in machinery and equipment which 
continued to expand, and investment in the construction sector that started to improve . Public 
expenditure accelerated from spending on consumption, and investment which resumed 
growth mainly on account of investment of state -owned enterprises (SOEs). Overall, the Thai 
economy in the first quarter of 2018 recorded a 2.0 percent growth from  the previous quarter, 
after seasonal adjustment, accelerated from 0.5 percent in the previous quarter.  
The Thai economy continued to gain further traction in the second quarter of 2018 , 
as reflected by recent economic indicators. In particular, growth of  merchandise exports was 
robust and broad -based across all major export destinations. Exports of services also 
continued to expand on the back of increased number of Chinese and Russian tourists, 
despite some decline in the number of European tourists due to early arrival of Easter. 
Domestic demand continued to drive a stronger economic growth with improved private 
consumption indicators across almost all categories, except spending on non -durable goods 
which was largely unchanged. With regard to purchasing  power, income of non -agricultural 
households gradually improved. At the same time, income of agricultural households also 
gradually rose, due to an expansion in agricultural output and a rise in some agricultural prices. 
However, prices of several agricul tural products remained low. Nevertheless, continued 
improvements in both domestic and external demand resulted in an expansion of 
manufacturing production, particularly in automobiles, food and beverages, and chemical 
products. Private investment continue d to gain momentum from certainty of investment in the 
Eastern Economic Corridor (ECC) and the Public -Private Partnership (PPP) projects, following 
the cabinet’s approval on the high -speed rail project connecting three airports. This would 
shore up busines s confidence. Public expenditure continued expanding on account of current 
expenditure owing to an expansion in compensation of employees and investment 
expenditure due to airport maintenance projects as well as procurement of machinery and 
equipment by so me authorities.  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  11 The positive spillovers from the economic expansion were gradually extended to the labor 
market. Income of non -agricultural households picked up but had yet to be distributed to 
all sectors, while income of agricultural households bega n to improve slightly.  
 The continuation of economic growth 
gradually benefited households’ purchasing 
power  (Chart  2.1). Non-farm households 
whose income clearly improved  were among 
high-income households. This was observed 
in an indicator on average income per head 
transferred through financial institutions which 
continued to improve. Meanwhile, average 
income of non -agricultural households 
gradually picked up. In addition , signs of 
improvement in employment started to be 
observed, as there was higher employment in 
normal working hours reflecting stronger 
business confidence on economic condition, 
where previously only  higher overtime 
employment was observed. In particular,  
such improvement was seen in export -related manufacturing industries such as food, rubber 
and plastic, as well as in services sector especially restaurants and hotels. Income of farm 
households gradually increased owing to an expansion in agricultural out put thanks to 
favorable weather condition and water supply. Moreover, prices of some agricultural products 
rose on the back of increased global demand such as jasmine rice and cassava, while prices 
of white rice did not decline despite considerable output this year. However, prices of some 
agricultural products remained unchanged , especially rubber, palm oil, white shrimp, and 
some fruits such as mango. As a result, income of some agricultural households remained low.   
Headline inflation trended up in line with energy price, while core inflation gradually 
increased mainly on account of prices of processed food, housing, tobacco and alcoholic 
beverages with prices of other items slowly increased.  
Headline inflation  averaged at 
1.28 percent over the first two months of 
the second quarter of 2018, an 
improvement from 0.64 percent in the 
previous quarter  (Chart  2.2). Such 
improvement was mainly on account  of a 
continued rise in energy price following 
higher domestic oil pri ces and prices of 
liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in line with 
global oil prices. Meanwhile, fresh food 
prices began to increase from higher rice 
and vegetable prices. However, prices of 
livestock and fruits continued to contract 
given a large output in the market.  
6090120150
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Real wage and salary transfers per person vial banking system*
real average non-farm income
Real farm incomeIndex, seasonally adjusted (3 -month moving average)
(Jan 2014 = 100 )
Note: *wage and salary transfer transactions are calculated from 2 databases: 
(1) Commercial banks reporting transactions to Bank of Thailand database 
which covers 90% of all retail transfer transations and (2) Interbank Transaction 
Management and Exchange  (ITMX ) database which covers 10% of all retail 
transfer transactions.
Sources: Bank of Thailand, Office of Agricultural Economics, National 
Statistical Office, Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.1 Overall purchasing power gradually improved
Various household income indicators
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Fresh food (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
Note: ( ) denotes share in inflation baskets.
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.2 Headline inflation increased from the previous 
quarter due mainly to energy prices.
Inflation target (2.5  1.5%)Headline inflation and inflation target
Apr-MayMonetary Policy Report June  2018  12 Core inflation  averaged at 0.72 percent over the first two months of the second 
quarter of 2018, an increase from 0.61 percent in the previous quarter. Prices of food items in 
the core inflation basket picked up slightly (Chart 2.3)  following a gradual rise in processed 
food prices in line with costs of fresh food and LPG. Meanwhile, prices of non -food 
components in core inflation increased (Chart 2.4)  from higher housing rents and excise tax 
on tobacco and alcoholic beverages. Price s of other  items still expanded at low levels. 
Nevertheless, structural factors including production technology development, rising trends of 
e-commerce, and globalization, led to lower of costs of production and intensified price 
competitions. As a conseq uence, these factors weighed on a sluggish increase in prices of 
non-food components in core inflation in recent periods.  
Short -term (one -year ahead) inflation expectations according to a survey of 
businesses in May 2018 stood at 2.1 percent, largely un changed from the first quarter of 2018. 
Meanwhile, long -term (five -year ahead) inflation expectations according to a survey of 
professional forecasters in April 2018 increased to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent from the 
previous survey (October 2017).  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Short -term money market rates remained low, except short -term government bond yields 
which increased to the level closer to the policy rate due to a higher bond supply and a 
lower demand from foreign investors. Meanwhile, medium - and long -term governme nt 
bond yields picked up primarily on account of external factors and a better -than-expected 
economic and inflation outturns.  
 Most  short -term money market rates  remained close to the policy interest rate in 
the second quarter of 2018. However, short -term government bond yields  continued to rise 
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Non-alcoholic beverages
Seasoning and condiments
Prepared foodPercentContribution to food -in-core inflation ( 8.1  )Chart 2.3 Food -in-core inflation increased slightly due to 
a gradual rise in LPG and fresh food prices. 
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by the Bank of ThailandApr-May
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Housing and furnishing
Transport and communication
Medical and personal care
Recreation and reading
Apparel and footwear
Tobacco and alcoholic beveragesPercentChart 2.4 Non food -in-core inflation rose on the back of an 
increase in housing rents and excise tax on tobacco and 
alcoholic beverages.   
Contribution to non -food in core inflation  ( 1.83 )
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by the Bank of ThailandApr-May
Table 2.1 Inflation
2016 2017 2018
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Apr-May
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) 0.26 0.69 1.25 0.10 0.45 0.88 0.56 1.28
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.76 0.73 0.66 0.47 0.49 0.61 0.61 0.72
Raw food 2.58 1.54 0.61 -2.99 -2.25 -0.80 -1.23 0.37
Energy -7.00 -1.06 6.69 2.67 4.86 5.24 2.62 6.19
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommerceAnnual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report June  2018  13 to the level closer to the policy rate (Chart 2.5) . This was attributable to a higher supply of 
treasury bills in March and bonds issued by the Bank of Thailand since May. Foreign investors 
also reduced their holdin gs of short -term bonds given concerns on emerging markets and 
trend of baht depreciation in the recent period. Meanwhile, medium - and long -term 
government bond yields  increased mainly due to external factors  (Chart 2.6) , following  an 
increase in 10 -year U. S. treasury yields in line with better -than-expected US economic 
outturns and a continued increase in global oil prices. Such improvement was also supported 
by domestic factors including recent economic and inflation outturns which were better than 
market expected. This resulted in a rise in medium - and long -term government bond yields 
before declining somewhat as U.S. treasury yields declined. Such decline was due to concerns 
over the euro area economy from political uncertainties and lower -than-expected e conomic 
outturns.  
 
 Corporate bond yields stabilized at 
low levels in tandem with credit spread1/ which 
was largely unchanged. Meanwhile, financing 
costs through  commercial banks , as 
reflected in the new loan rate (NLR)2/, 
remained at a low level, indicating financial 
conditions that were accommodative (Chart 
2.7).  
 
                                           
1/ Credit spread is the difference between corporate and government bond yields with the same tenure, reflecting 
an assessment on corporate bond issuers’ default risks.  
2/ NLR is calculated based on a weighted average of interest rates for new loan contract s extended by 14 Thai 
commercial banks (excluding consumer loans and loans to financial intermediaries). The data covers loans of 
value of 20 million baht or higher for all purposes and terms and includes both secured and non -secured loans. 
Moreover, inter est rates used in the calculation refer to the mid -rate between the lowest and the highest rates in 
each loan contract.  
Char 2.7  New Loan Rate (NLR) stabilized at low level
Source: Bank of ThailandNew Loan Rate  
7.08
6.28
5.03
4.11
2.75
1.50
02468
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul JanMLR NLR Policy rate% p.a.
2013 2017 2014 2015 2016 2018Apr 18
1.001.251.501.75
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr% p.a.
policy rate  O/N Interbank
1 month Gov. bond 1 month BIBORChart 2.5 Short -term interest rates remained close to policy 
rate, except short -term government bond yields  which
stabilized at the low level.
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)2016 2017Short -term rates in financial markets
20181.501.53
1.40
1.15
19 Jun  18
Monetary Policy Report June  2018  14 Private credit extended to both business and household accelerated, together with 
improvements in credits extended to SMEs observed in more businesses, reflec ting a 
more broad -based economic recovery.  
Private credit3/ continued to accelerate in the first quarter and in April 2018, by 
expanding at 5.0 percent in April 2018 from the same period last year (Chart 2.8 ), higher than 
4.3 percent observed at the end of the fourth quarter of 2017. Business credit  growth 
accelerated from the end of last year, especially loans extended to SMEs with relatively large 
credit lines, and was more broad -based across several types of businesses such as real 
estate, construction, and warehouses. Meanwhile, loans extended to large corporates 
improved in several businesses such as real estate, sugar industry, petrochemical and 
chemical products. In addition, household credit accelerate d across all loan purposes, 
particularly auto leasing which continued to accelerate in line with demand expansion and new 
car launches. Furthermore, consumer and mortgage loans continued to expand.  
The net issuance of corporate bonds continued to increase  in the first quarter of 
2018 from the same period last year as observed in funding of commercial banks and 
businesses in the financial, food and beverages, and real estate sectors. Net issuance of 
corporate bonds expanded 9.3 percent in April from the sam e period last year mainly due to 
funding of businesses in transport and construction material sectors  (Chart 2.9 ). Funding 
through the equity market  continued to increase in the first quarter of 2018 and in April 2018, 
especially in businesses related to p etrochemical and chemical products, technology, and  
real estate.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Going forward, financial conditions were expected to remain accommodative as 
reflected in the real policy interest rate which remained at a low level and was moderate 
compared wi th other countries (Chart 2.10).  Meanwhile , financing costs through commercial 
banks, as reflected in the new loan rate (NLR), would stabilize at a low level. Nevertheless, 
the Credit Condition Survey4/ indicated that financial institutions would be more vigilant in 
extending credit to SMEs in the second quarter of 2018 from rising concerns on credit quality. 
                                           
3/ Outstanding credit of other depositary corporations (ODCs), namely commercial banks, specialized financial 
institutions, finance companies, savings cooperatives, and market mutual funds. 
4 / Survey of credit conditions for the fourth quarter of 2017 and outlook for the first quarter of 2018.  
Source:  Bank of ThailandChart  2.  Private credit accelerated from both business 
credit and household credit 
Growth of private credit
Note: Private credit includes credit to other depository corporations (ODCs) namely 
commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, finance companies, saving 
cooperatives, and money market mutual fundsPercentage change from the same period last year
0246810
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2018Business credit Household credit Total private credit
4.64.9
4.8Apr 18
Monetary Policy Report June  2018  15 Meanwhile, financial institutions would still maintain caution in extending household credit in 
all purposes, except for credit card loans and auto leasing extended to risky customers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The baht weakened against the U.S. dollar and the nominal effective exchange rate also 
depreciated.  
In the second quarter of 2018, the baht depreciated against the U.S. dollar  relative 
to the end of previous quarter  (Chart 2.11 ). The baht depreciation was mainly due to the 
strengthening of the U.S. dollar since April, driven  by improved economic outlook of the US 
relative to other countries, particularly the euro area. As a consequence, investors anticipated 
a faster -than-assessed pace of policy rate hike in the US. Meanwhile, the European Central 
Bank signaled to maintain the degree of monetary policy accommodation for an extended 
period. Moreover, invest ors were concerned over intensifying trade retaliations between the 
US and major advanced economies, as observed in greater capital outflows from emerging 
market economies including Thailand, especially from countries with vulnerable economic 
fundamentals such as Argentina and Turkey. However, the impact of capital outflows on the 
Thai economy was largely limited thanks to strong external stability. In addition, there were 
additional depreciation pressures on the baht owing to seasonal factors in the second  quarter 
from repatriation of dividends of foreign companies and foreign investors from Thailand. As of 
June 19, 2018, the baht closed at 32.81 baht per U.S. dollar, depreciated 5.0 percent from the 
end of the previous quarter.  
The nominal effective exchan ge rate (NEER) stood at 113.82 on June 19, 2018, a 
1.5 percent depreciation from the end of the previous quarter, as the baht depreciated against 
most trading partner currencies, except the euro and currencies of emerging market 
economies other than Asia ( Chart 2.12 ). This was partly due to a gradual increase in the policy 
rate of some central banks in the region.  As of the end of May 2018, the real effective 
exchange rate (REER)  slightly rose 0.2 percent from the end of the previous quarter as  
inflation i n Thailand increased at a faster pace relative to trading partners. In the period ahead, 
exchange rates would likely remain volatile due to uncertainties surrounding international 
monetary and fiscal policies, trade protectionism measures, geopolitical ris ks, and outlook of 
oil prices.  
Chart  2.10  Thailand’s real policy rate   remained low and was 
moderate compared with other countries
Real policy rates  
-2.50-2.00-1.50-1.00-0.500.000.501.001.50
US EU JP UK NZ KR ID MY PH IN THPercent
Note:   Calculated from policy rate subtracted by one -year-ahead inflation  
expectation according to a survey by Consensus Economics 
(as of 11 June  2018 )
Sources: Bloomberg,  Consensus Economics, calculation by Bank of ThailandJun 18Monetary Policy Report June  2018  16  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Financial stability remained sound overall. However, there remained risks in certain 
pockets warranted monitoring including a continued search -for-yield behavior, volatilities 
in global financial markets which might affect financing cost through bond marke ts and 
rollovers of short -term corporate bonds, deterioration in credit quality of certain 
households and businesses, and an oversupply of property in the real estate market in 
certain price ranges and areas which were at a high level.  
Thailand’s financia l stability remained sound as reflected in sustained current account 
surplus and a high level of foreign exchange reserves which would provide cushion against 
volatilities of economic and financial conditions in both domestic and foreign countries. In 
addition, financial positions of financial institutions and insurance businesses remained strong 
and high levels of capital buffers of commercial banks would be able to cushion against risks 
should credit quality deteriorated. Risks related to leveraging of th e private sector continued 
to decrease overall, as reflected in the downward trend of debt to GDP of non -financial 
corporates. This was on account of a continued economic expansion and a smaller growth of 
corporate and household debts relative to the previ ous 2 -3 years. However, the Committee 
assessed that there remained pockets of risks to be monitored going forward. These risks 
were summarized as follows.  
(1) The continued search -for-yield behavior could lead to underpricing of risks, 
although overall systematic risks remained limited. However, given a prolonged period of 
low interest rates, there remained several issues to be closely monitored. Such issues  
included, for example, (1) an overseas investment through foreign investment funds (FIF) that 
remained at a high level, despite some slowdown since the beginning of 2018, due to rising 
costs of foreign exchange hedging and concerns over volatilities of gl obal financial markets. 
Nevertheless, there remained concentration risk as investments were mainly concentrated in 
a few countries. In addition, (2) a continued search -for-higher -yield behavior through savings 
cooperatives, whose assets and deposits surged  at a high rate albeit slowing down somewhat 
after regulatory authorities collaborated to enhance supervisory standards. Meanwhile, large 
saving cooperatives were more interconnected with the financial system through investments 
in equities, thereby increa sing importance of savings cooperatives system to the financial 
system. Thus, the Committee would continue to closely monitor such linkages as well as 
developments of savings cooperatives.  
Monetary Policy Report June  2018  17 (2) Volatilities of capital flows and global financial markets mig ht trigger yield 
snapbacks and affect rollovers of businesses from funding through short -term bond 
issuances. Although most issuers raised funds through issuing debt instruments with 
investment grade above the A level, global policy rates outlook which was  on an upward cycle 
could trigger yield snapbacks and might affect financial positions of some businesses that had 
to roll the fund over, especially bonds with investment grade below A level.  
(3) Overall credit quality remained 
unchanged but deteriorated  among some 
households and businesses. The non -performing  
loan (NPL) ratio of the commercial banking 
system stabilized at 2.92 percent in the first 
quarter of 2018 from 2.91 percent in the previous 
quarter. However, NPLs of consumer and SMEs 
loans increase d to 2.78 percent and 4.50 
percent respectively (Chart 2.13).  This reflected 
increasing fragility in debt serviceability  of 
households and SMEs, especially households 
with large debt burden and smaller SMEs with 
vulnerable financial positions. In addition, with 
regard to household credits extended by commercial banks , the loan to value (LTV) ratio of 
mortgage loans increased and credits extended to low -income borrowers also rose. This might 
affect debt burden of households and their debt serviceability in the period ahead. Moreover, 
performances and financial position s of some SMEs remained fragile, as reflected in the 
operating profit margin (OPM) and the interest coverage ratio (ICR) of small businesses in the 
first quarter of 2018 that continued to be negative5/. 
(4) An oversupply of property was 
observed in certai n price ranges and areas . 
In particular, the oversupply of condominium 
units with price below 3 million baht remained at 
a high level, while the time taken for all units to 
be sold was relatively long (Chart 2.14).  
Moreover, higher demand from foreigners  in 
recent periods might prompt developers to 
assess a too -high demand from foreigners and 
led to an increase in an oversupply of property 
in the future. However, such risks were still 
limited at present, as reflected in the survey of 
real estate developers selling condominium units 
to foreigners which revealed that developers 
remained cautious in launching new projects.  
 
 
                                           
5/ For OPM and ICR at the 25th percentile of small -sized companies listed at the Stock Excha nge of Thailand  
Chart 2.13 Overall loan quality remained stable, but deteriorated 
in some households and businesses particularly SMEs  
%NPL of each type of loan
2.65
1.943.98
2.07
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
%NPL to Total loan %NPL to Large Corporate Loan
%NPL to SME Loan %NPL to Consumer Loan2017 Q4 2018 Q1
SME loan4.37 4.50
Total loan2.91 2.92
Consumer loan 2.68 2.78
Large Corporate loan 1.75 1.66
Source: Bank of ThailandNon-performing loan  (NPL) ratio  of the banking system
26
22
111115
01020304050
010203040
 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 Thousand units
Accumulated supply Time to go (RHS)Months
< 2 mioTHB 2-3 mio THBChart 2.14 An oversupply of condominium units with price below  3 
million baht continued to increase while time to go appeared longer
Note: ‘Time to go’ is the time taken for  all real estate inventory to be sold out at the average 
sales rate per month (since projects launched) given no additional supply.
Source: AREA and calculation by Bank of ThailandCondominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinity and ‘time to go’  
3-5 mio THB 5-10 mio THB 10 mio THBMonetary Policy Report June  2018  18  2.2 Outlook for the Thai Economy  
 Under the Committee’s assessment, Thailand’s economic growth was projected 
to gain further traction. The Thai economy was expected to grow at 4.4 percent and 4.2 
percent in 2018 and 2019 respectively  which were higher  than previously assessed in 
the previo us Monetary Policy Report . Key growth  drivers included (1) a continued 
expansion of merchandise exports and tourism in tandem with global t rade volume and trading 
partner  economies, and (2) higher -than-expected private consumption and private investment 
growth. Meanwhile, inflation was projected to  gradually trend up  due to domestic demand 
growth and rising energy -related prices in tandem with global crude oil prices. Howe ver, 
inflation would slowly rise as prices of fresh food were  expected to be  lower than previously 
assessed.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the key forecast assumptions  
• Trading partner economies  were projected to expand slightly faster than the previous 
assessment  from strong growth in Asia driven by export and domestic demand.  
 • The federal funds rate was expected to be raised four times in 2018, more than  previously 
expected . The Fed would rai se the policy rate twice in the first half of the year and also likely 
increase the rate twice  in the second half of the year. In 2019, the Fed was expected to raise the 
policy rate three times and gradually commence its balance sheet reduction according to the 
announced plan.  
• Asian currencies (excluding the Chinese yuan) would be on an appreciating trend on the 
back of continued improv ing economic fundamentals  of Asian economi es. However, the 
appreciation would be at a smaller degree throughout the fore cast horizon compared to the 
previous assessment given stronger -than-expected U.S. dollar in the second quarter of 2018. 
Positive perceptions on the U.S. economy strengthened the dollar more than expected.  
• The Dubai crude oil price was revised up through out the forecast horizon due to supply -side 
factors, especially a continued decline of crude oil inventory and investor concerns on short -term 
oil supply. Nevertheless , the Dubai oil price would gradually trend down to an equilibrium level in 
line with global economic fundamentals  in the period ahead . However , oil prices  would not be 
significantly lower than the current price due to growing demand following expanded global 
economy.  
Table 2.2  Forecast summary
Percent 2017* 2018  019
GDP growth 3.9 4.4 (4.1) 4.2 (4.1)  
Headline inflation 0.7 1.1 (1.0) 1.2  (1.2)
Core inflation 0.6 0.7 (0.7) 0.9(0.8)
Note: * Outturn 
( ) Monetary Policy Report  March  2018             
Sources: NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimatesMonetary Policy Report June  2018  19  • Farm income  was revised down from the previous estimate due to a decline in agricultural 
prices as a result of higher output such as rubber, palm oil and livestock. Nonetheless, rice prices 
would improve thanks to higher external demand.  
• Public spending at current prices was revised down  in 2018, while the spending in 2019 
was slightly adjusted upward. Public consumption was lowered throughout the forecast horizon 
mainly due to the change in the government budget structure for the fiscal y ear 2019, with a larger 
share of capital spending compared to the previous assessment. Public investment in 2018 was 
revised downward due to delayed investment by some state -owned enterprises following 
difficulties in accessing construction sites and some construction problems. In 2019, public 
investment was revised upward due to the following reasons. First, a larger share of the 
government budget for fiscal year 2019 was allocated toward capital spending compared with the 
previous announcement. Second, so me investment spending would be carried over from 2018. 
Third, disbursement plans for the dual -track railway project became more certain.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Merchandise exports continued to expand across various product categories and almost 
all export destinatio ns.  
 The value of merchandise export s was projected to continue expand ing and 
record at 9.0 and 5.0 percent growth in 2018 and 2019 respectively, up from the previous 
estimates of 7.0 and 3.6 percent growth respectively  in the previous Monetary Policy 
Report . Growth would be observed  in terms of price and  volume . Export prices would trend 
up in line with crude oil prices, especially for commodities and oil -related products. Export 
volume would continue to expand across various product categories —particu larly electronics, 
auto parts, and processed agricultural products (Chart 2.15) —and almost all export 
destinations  (Chart 2.1 6), in tandem with expansion in global trade volume and trading partner 
economies. However, the value of merchandise exports in 2019  was expected to exhibit 
a slower  growth due to the following reasons . First, global trade and  trading partner 
economies would slow down after accelerati ng in earlier periods  owing to economic stimulus 
measu res in the U.S. and Japan wh ose effect  was expected to  end in 2019 . In addition,  
Chinese economic structural reforms would slow down the Chinese economy. Second, high 
levels of exports in 2018 would cause a high base effect due to the fact that a number of  
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2017* 2018 2019
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 53.1 69.2 (62.4) 68.3 (63.0)
Farm income (% YoY) 1.4 2.8 (3.1) 2.1 (2.2)
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,532 2,669 (2,676) 2,819 (2,838)
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/926 1,028 (1,038) 1,115 (1,092)
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 1.38 2.38 (2.13) 3.13 (2.88)
Trading partners’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.9 3.8 (3.7) 3.6 (3.6)
Regional currencies (excl. China) vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar (index)3/ 155.7 149.9 (148.0) 149.1 (147.0)
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand total exports
                     3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
               * Outturns
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report March 2018Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report June  2018  20 industries relocated their production to Thailand and started exporting in 2018, for example, 
hard-disk drives and cellphones.  
 Nevertheless , the Committee assessed that intensifying trade retaliat ion between the 
U.S. and major economies, which would put  pressures on investment and  international trade , 
could directly and indirectly affect Thai exports. The effects, however, would differ according 
to product categories. Thus, the Committee would closely monitor developments of trade 
policy and negotiations  while assessing potential impacts on the supply chain as well as Thai 
businesses. The effects could possibly impact several dimensions of the Thai economy 
through intentional trade, business confidence , and financial market volatilit ies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Exports of services were expected to be slightly higher than the previous assessment due 
mainly to a greater number of foreign tourists.  
 Thailand’s exports of services were expected to be slightly higher than the 
previous assessment due mainly to a great er number of foreign tourists, albeit lower 
spending per  head6/. The projected number of foreign tourists was revised up to 38.3 
and 40.0 million  in 2018 and 2019 , respectively, up from the previous forecast of 37.6 
and 39.0 million respectively estimated in the previous Monetary Policy Report . Key 
factors supporting the tourism sector include a continued growth in the number of  Chinese 
tourists , for both group  tourists and free and independent travelers (FIT) , and newly opened 
direct flights from second -tier Chinese cities to Thailand. However, Thailand’s tourism sector 
would still face limitations on the capacity of major airports in accommodating the rising 
number of tourists.  Nevertheless , recent management by airlines and airports also helped 
alleviate airport capacity constraints  such as additional flights during off -peak  times and higher 
utilization of regional airports.  
Given improvements in the value of mercha ndise and services exports, the projection 
for the value of merchandise and service s imports was revised up with higher imports of raw 
materials and intermediate goods, coupled with more imported capital goods and machinery 
in line with improving private i nvestment. In addition , oil prices were expected to trend up.  
Consequently, the current account would likely record a smaller surplus than estimated in the 
previous Monetary Policy Report , registering 40.0 and 36.0 billion U.S. dollars in 2018 and 
2019 res pectively.  
                                           
6/ According to the survey in the first quarter and second quarter of 2018 by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports.  
Chart 2.15 Merchandise exports continued to expand across 
various product categories
406080100120140160
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18Electrical appliances (5.6) Vehicle parts (6.5)
Electronics ex. HDD (9.0) Petroleum-related (11.5)
Agro-manu (12.3)
Note: Number in () denotes share to total exports in 2017
Source: Customs Department, calculation by Bank of Thailand.Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Value of merchandise exports, by product category
Chart  2.16 Merchandise exports expanded across almost all 
export destinations
708090100110120130
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18ASEAN (26.3) US (11.3)
China (12.6) EU (11.3)
Japan (9.3)
Note: Numbers in ( ) represent share in total exports of year 2017
Source: Customs Department, Calculations by Bank of ThailandValue of merchandise exports, by export destination
Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Monetary Policy Report June  2018  21 Private consumption would expand at a higher  rate than the previous assessment.  
Private consumption would gain further traction in the period ahead , driven 
mainly by non -farm households , especially middle - and high- income households whose 
earnings continued to rise. Meanwhile, earnings of low -income households started to improve 
following stronger employment particularly in construction and services sectors. Farm income 
expanded on the back of higher production while agricultural prices of certain crops that 
lingered at low levels would remain a major drag on farm income. Moreover, government 
measures —such as the social welfare card project (second phase), the community enterprise 
development project, and agricultural reform project —would su pport purchasing power going 
forward. However, elevated household debt would cause households to allocate part of their 
income for debt repayment. In addition, ongoing structural changes in the labor market would 
continue to weigh on private consumption gr owth. For instance,  increased  adoption of 
automation in place of human labor in the production process  could lead to labor migration 
toward the services sector . Consequently, workers might earn less owing to lower  pay in most 
services sector jobs relative to the manufacturing sector. As a result, this factor would remain  
a drag on private consumption growth.  
Public spending remained a driver of economic growth, with some investment projects 
postponed to 2019.  
Public spending would continue contributing to economic growth . Public 
consumption was expected to  steadily increase  despite smaller projected outlays due to the 
change in the government budget structure for fiscal year 2019, with a larger share of capital 
spending compared with the previous announceme nt. Although there was additional fiscal 
budget in 2018, this would not compensate for the moderation in public consumption due to 
the change in the 2019 budget structure. Public investment in 2018 was revised downward 
due to delayed investment of some sta te-owned enterprises. For example, the Bang  Pakong 
power plant construction by the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand faced difficulties 
in accessing construction sites while the Airport of Thailand P ublic Company Limited  (AOT)’s 
Suvarnabhumi Air port development project phase 2 also had some construction problems. In 
any case, public investment in 2019 was revised up due to the following reasons. First, a larger 
share of the government budget for fiscal year 2019 was allocated to capital spending 
compared with the previous announcement. Second, some investment spending would be 
carried over from 2018. Third, disbursement plans became more certain for the State Railway 
of Thailand’s Den  Chai-Chiang  Rai-Chiang  Khong dual -track railway project. In addition, the 
impact from the enforcement of the Public Procurement and Supplies Management Act, B.E. 
2560 started to dissipate in line with the previous assessment.  
Private investment was projected to achieve higher gr owth than previously assessed  
Private investment was projected to achieve higher growth than previously 
assessed , in line with growth of merchandise exports and private consumption, reflected by  
these following factors. First, capacity utilization rose acr oss various industries, such as 
automobiles and food and beverages. Second, import volume of capital goods and machinery 
increased. Third, demand for private credits extended to businesses increased. Forth, 
investment plans of large corporates became more certain. Fifth, government measures such 
as the community enterprise development and agricultural reform projects would support low -Monetary Policy Report June  2018  22 income households. Sixth, the value of investment application submitted to the Board of 
Investment continued to trend up. Mo reover, government infrastructure investment projects, 
the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), and public -private partnership projects (PPP) were 
increasingly taking shape. After the auction for mass rapid transit projects and high -speed 
trains connecting thr ee airports7/, joint investment plans by various private sector groups would 
shore up business confidence, foster  investment climate, and attract greater foreign 
investment. Nonetheless, developments of such investment projects would warrant monitoring 
going forward.  
Inflation was expected to slowly rise.  
Headline inflation was projected 
to rise at a slightly faster pace than the 
assessment in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report  on the back of acceleration 
in prices of energy -related products in 
tandem wit h global crude oil prices. 
However, government regulations on 
energy -related prices partly curbed the 
increase in costs of transportation and 
prepared food. Fresh food prices were 
projected to grow at lower rates following 
a larger -than-expected supply of meat, 
fruits, and vegetables. The increased supply was due to periods of favorable weather 
conditions and the government’s water management that devoted additional irrigated water 
toward agricultural purposes. Moreover, demand -pull pressures rose only slig htly. 
Although the output gap had already closed in the first half of 2018 (Chart 2.17),  demand -pull 
inflationary pressures rose only slightly as  benefits from economic growth  were not yet 
sufficiently broad -based . In addition,  there continued to be sales promotion offered by 
businesses  and structural changes still put downward pressures on inflation. For instance, 
developments of production technology helped reduce costs of goods and services and 
greater competition constrained  businesses from raising prices. The Committee therefore 
projected headline inflation to average 1.1 and 1.2 percent in 2018 and 2019, 
respectively, while core inflation was projected to average 0.7 and 0.9 percent in 2018 
and 2019, respectively.  
Risks to the growth projection were expected to tilt more downward than previously assessed .  
Under the Committee’s assessment,  risks to the growth projection were expected 
to tilt more downward than previously assessed , as reflected in the fan chart that skewed 
downward throughout the forecast horizon (Chart 2.18).  The increased downside risks were 
mainly due to external factors.  First, U.S. trade protectionism  measures, retaliation by major 
economies, and intensifying competition resulted from trade diversion coul d have greater -
than-expected impacts on Thai exports and private investment. Second, growth of Thailand’s 
trading partner economies might be lower than expected in case of intensifying global 
geopolitical tensions. Moreover, certain domestic factors also p osed downside risks to the 
                                           
7/ Construction expected to commence in the latter half of 2019.  
-4-2024
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Q1
2020Chart 2.17 Output Gap
%Monetary Policy Report June  2018  23 baseline projection. First, private consumption growth might be lower -than-expected as 
domestic purchasing power had yet to recover in a broad -based manner. Second, the 
enforcement of the Public Procurement and Supplies Managemen t Act, B.E. 2560 could lead 
to longer -than-expected delay in budget disbursement of some government agencies. 
Nonetheless, there were possibilities that the growth outturn might be higher than the 
baseline projection . First, growth of trading partner economies might be higher than 
expected. In such case, the U.S. economy would continue to improve thanks to support from 
the tax reform . The Chinese economic growth could slow down at a slower pace than expected  
should the Chinese government  implement addi tional economic stimulus measures , which 
would consequently lead to better -than-expected  Asian exports  growth . Second, domestic 
spending could be higher than the baseline assessment due to government infrastructure 
investment projects, public -private partn ership (PPP), as well as government measures aimed 
at stimulating private spending. Risks to the headline and core inflation projections were 
expected to tilt more downward than the previous assessment  consistent (Chart s 2.19 
and 2.20) with the risks to th e growth forecast.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.18 Growth forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-20246810
-20246810
 01  015  01  01  018  01  0 0% YoY
Chart 2.19 Headline inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-3-2-1012345
-3-2-1012345
 01  015  01  01  018  01  0 0Headline inflation target 2.5  1.5%% YoY
Chart 2.20 Core inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-10123
-10123
 01  015  01  01  018  01  0 0% YoY
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2017* 2018 2019
GDP growth 3.9 4.4 (4.1) 4.2 (4.1)
Domestic demand 2.1 3.9 (3.6) 3.8 (3.4)
     Private consumption 3.2 3.7 (3.3) 3.6 (3.3)
     Private investment 1.7 3.7 (3.0) 4.4 (3.6)
     Government consumption 0.5 2.7 (2.9) 2.9 (3.3)
     Public investment -1.2 8.9 (9.5) 6.5 (3.4)
Exports of goods and services 5.5 5.5 (5.2) 3.8 (3.6)
imports of goods and services 6.8 6.3 (5.5) 3.8 (3.7)
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 48.1 40.0 (42.2) 36.0 (39.5)
Value of merchandise exports 9.7 9.0 (7.0) 5.0 (3.6)
Value of merchandise imports 14.4 14.7 (11.5) 6.9 (5.4)
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 35.4 38.3 (37.6) 40.0 (39.0)
Note: *Outturns
             ( ) Monetary Policy Report March 2018Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report June  2018  24 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
In the second quarter of 2018, the Committee assessed the necessity to maintain 
monetary policy accommodation in the current context by weighing various factors in order 
to promote sustainable economic growth, while pursuing price stability and preserving 
financial stability.  
The Committee placed great emphasis on the strength and continuation of economic 
growth, and headline inflation that would continue to move firmly within target in a sustainable 
manner in the period ahead. The Committee assessed that the economy would  gain further 
traction driven by stronger momentum from both external and domestic demand, while inflation 
would rise at a faster pace than expected partly owing to supply -side factors. However, risks 
to financial stability from a prolonge d low interest rate must be monitored.   
1. Supporting sustainable economic growth through monetary policy  
accommodation . The Thai economy was expected to gain further traction with  robust growth, 
driven by the external sector which continued expanding in  line with stronger global economic 
expansion , and domestic demand which gained additional momentum in almost all 
components . This was particularly reflected  in strengthening  private consumption. However, 
there were risks to growth from elevated household debt, subdued prices of some agricultural 
products, and adverse impacts facing some workers following structural changes in the labor 
market. Private investment was expected to continue expanding thanks to investment plans 
of large businesses and would be supported further from investment in the EEC and the PPP 
projects  where the prospects became more certain. However, the progress on such 
investment projects in the period ahead must be monitored. Public expenditure remained a 
driver of economic growth despite risks of delayed disbursement than expected. In this light , 
the Committee viewed that the monetary policy accommodation would help support the 
continuation of economic gr owth , although the spillovers of economic expansion had yet to 
sufficiently extend to all economic sectors. This was due to structural problems in various 
dimensions currently facing the Thai economy such as a decreasing working -age population 
given aging,  technological advancements  which led to a shift in demand for labor skills and 
types of investment, and Thailand’s educational system that was yet to produce labor to match 
market demand. The Committee viewed that such problems should be addressed primari ly by 
structural reform policies in conjunction with other economic policies (Box: Thailand’s structural 
economic issues and economic policy coordination ). In addition, the Thai economy would still 
face risks from the external front that warranted close mo nitoring. These risks included foreign 
trade policies of the U .S. and possible retaliatory measures from major economies, especially 
from additional tariffs on imported cars and auto parts by the U.S., and geopolitical risks which 
might affect economies of  Thailand’s trading partners. Some Committee members viewed that 
there was a need to promptly address structural issues, especially if  such risks weigh ed on 
Thai exports, so that domestic spending could  once again  become a key economic driver in 
the long r un. 
2. Supporting headline inflation to move within target in a sustainable manner.  
Inflation indicators recently  pointed to  a gradual increase in inflationary pressures (Chart 3.1) . 
This was particularly observed in an acceleration of supply -side price pressures in line with  
energy prices, following the fast rise in global oil prices in the recent period. Such development Monetary Policy Report June  2018  25 led to a rise in headline inflation above the lower bound of target during the first two months 
of the second quarter of 2018. As a re sult, average headline inflation was forecasted to be 
within target in 2018 and 2019. The Committee viewed that although headline inflation was 
expected to rise at a faster pace than projected, it was mainly on account of oil price increases. 
Meanwhile, de mand -pull price pressures would improve  gradually. Thus, developments of 
inflation should be closely monitored, especially fresh food prices which were highly volatile 
owing to weather conditions and agricultural output. This could cause fresh food prices to rise 
at a slower pace than previously expected. Moreover, inflation expectations, survey ed from 
businesses and professional forecasters, were close to the inflation target, while  long-term 
inflation expectation s picked up from the previous quarter (Char t 3.2) . In addition, the 
Committee viewed that demand -pull price  pressures that continued to be at a  low level, and 
structural changes such as technological developments and an expansion of  e-commerce 
businesses, led to lower costs of production and intens ified price competition. Thus , 
businesses faced constraints in raising prices. Furthermore, there were also other factors 
which might contribute to lower upward inflationary pressures than in the past. These factors 
included lesser impact on inflation of a n increase in minimum wages, government’s policy  on 
domestic energy pricing, and the expansion of farm ing areas worldwide which might cause 
agricultural prices to remain low or rise to the lesser extent. Thus, the Committee saw the 
need to study the impact  of such factors on inflation dynamics in further details , as this could 
have significant implications on inflation target setting in the future.  
 
3. The buildup of risks to financial stability . The Committee viewed that financial 
stability remained sound  overall . However, the buildup of vulnerabilities in certain pockets 
must be monitored as it could lead to an abrupt adjustment in the financial system in the 
future. Such vulnerabilities included , first,  the continued search -for-yield behavior given 
a prolonged low interest rate environment which could lead to increased underpricing 
of risks , such as a surge in assets and deposits of saving cooperatives  despite some 
deceleration following regulatory improvements to enhance supervision particularly  on those  
saving cooperatives with larger asset sizes and greater  interconnections with the Thai 
financial system. Meanwhile, investment in foreign investment funds (FIFs) continued and 
was concentrated in certain countries. However, investment in FIFs slowed down somewhat    
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of May 2018 , while the second value is 2004 -2014 average; 
Asymmetric trim excludes goods and services with most volatile price changes, 
removing the bottom 10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods and services.
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2013Jul Jan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Core inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.03, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.00, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.01, 0.11)Chart 3 1Underlying inflation indicators remained low 
reflected a gradual increase in inflation. 
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Chart 3 2 Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI )
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model with bond yield 
and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Monetary Policy Report June  2018  26 due to rising costs of foreign exchange hedging in recent periods. The second  financial 
stability risk  was volatilities of international capital flows and global financial markets 
which could trigger yield snapbacks and affect roll -overs of b usinesses that relied on 
financing through short -term bonds, especially those holding bonds with investment grade 
below A.  The third  financial stability risk was that,  while overall credit quality was largely 
stable, improvement in debt serviceability of households and SMEs was not clearly 
observed. This was reflected in NPLs of those groups that remained elevated as well as  the 
household debt to financial asset s ratio that wo uld likely trend up. Finally, oversupply in the 
property  market , especially in the recent periods where developers continued to raise fund s 
to expand their businesses , was another risk to financial stability.  In addition, some financial 
institutions engage d in competition by extending mortgage loans with higher credit risks as 
well as loans with higher LTV ratio s.  
Nevertheless, some Committee members viewed that certain risks to financial stability 
might be self -correctable when the policy rate increased, while some risks might need to be 
addressed by macroprudential measures  such as measures on credit card and personal 
loans under the supervision of the Bank of Thailand that were enforced since the end of 2017.  
Some Committee members viewed that , although macroprudential measures were appropriate  
tools used to curb certain risks in some economic sectors, the policy rate was a n important  
tool preventing  risks from further developing and affecting broad financial and economic 
stability . The policy interest ra te thus should be used in conjunction with macroprudential 
measures.  
The Committee voted unanimously to keep the policy interest rate at 1.5 percent to 
maintain accommodative financial conditions in order to support a stronger and continued 
economic growth as well as foster inflation to gradually rise and move within target in a 
sustainable manner, without causing the buildup of vulnerabilities to financial stabilit y  
The Committee had to weigh various factors in formulating the most appropriate 
cours e of monetary policy and voted unanimously (6 to 0 , with o ne Committee member 
absent) at the meeting on May 16, 2018 and later 5 to 1 (with one member absent ) at the 
meeting on June 20, 2018 to keep the policy rate unchanged at 1.50 percent.  Monetary 
policy accommodation remained an important factor supporting a stronger and continued 
growth of domestic demand which would foster headline inflation to gradually rise and move 
within target in a sustainable manner. The Committee viewed that current level of po licy 
interest rate at 1.50 percent was conducive to accommodative financial conditions as reflected 
in a low real policy rate. Moreover, the interest rates on new loans  that continued to remain 
low as well as  bond yields that remained accommodative  despite  some recent increase 
continued to support businesses financing. This was observed  in a continued growth of 
commercial bank loans extended to businesses and of corporate bonds issuance. Meanwhile, 
one Committee voted to raise the policy rate by 0.25 percen tage point to 1.75 percent at the 
meeting on June 20, 2018 with the view that the economic recovery was sufficiently robust 
and inflation was expected to remain within target throughout the projection period. Moreover, 
the member viewed that the prolonged monetary accommodation might induce households 
and businesses to underestimate potential changes to financial conditions and thus voted to 
raise the policy rate at this meeting in order to start building policy space  for future needs . Monetary Policy Report June  2018  27 With regard to exchange rates, the baht depreciated in recent periods as the U .S. dollar 
appreciated since mid -April due to (1) uncertainties on trade war between the U .S. and major 
advanced economies while geopolitical risks were  temporar ily relaxed, (2) an improved 
outlook of the U .S. economy, and (3) seasonal factor s in the second quarter from repatriation 
of dividends of foreign companies and investors. Recently in June, the U .S. dollar appreciated 
at a faster pace as the Fed would likely raise policy rates a total of  four times this year. As a 
result, the baht as well as other regional currencies weakened against the U .S. dollar. 
However, the baht was least affected compare d with other emerging market currencies with 
vulnerable economic fundamentals. Nevertheless, the  Committee assessed that the impact of 
the baht movements differed among businesses and households, where the impact s could be 
either positive or negative depending on whether  the baht appreciated or depreciated. 
Exchange rate policy  should therefore take into consideration  impacts on various parties 
involved  (Box: The impact of exchange rates of the  Thai economy ). Going forward, the baht would  
likely be volatile given  uncertainties on the conduct of monetary and fiscal policies of major 
advanced economies.  The Committee would thus continue to closely monitor developments 
in the foreign exchange market and impact s on the economy.  
The Committee saw the need to  carefully consider policy options in the context of the 
Thai economy. Hence, although some central banks of major economies and regional 
countries began to reduce the degree of monetary policy accommodation, the context of the 
Thai economy was different —in particular,  given that Thailand’s external stabilities remained 
sound and were able to cushion aga inst international capital flow  and global financial market 
volatilities. In addition, risks to financial stability that were partly due to a prolonged low interest 
rate environment were still at manageable levels. In this light, t he Committee considered a ll 
policy tradeoffs and viewed that monetary policy accommodation could be maintained  at the 
current level.  
Looking ahead, the Committee viewed that monetary policy accommodation would be 
a key factor to support a stronger growth of domestic demand which c ould foster headline 
inflation to gradually rise and move within target in a sustainable manner. However, should 
economic expansion continue, and inflation move more firmly within target, the need for 
currently extra accommodative monetary policy would sta rt to be reduced, and that the need 
for a policy rate increase in order to build policy space in the future would be increasing. The 
Committee would stand ready to appropriately utilize available policy tools to support a 
stronger economic growth while als o preserving price and financial stability.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report June  2018  28       
  Thailand’s structural economic issues and economic policy coordination  
The Thai economy has rebounded and 
registered continued growth with key drivers 
from merchandise exports and tourism as well 
as recent gradual improvements in domestic 
demand (Chart 1). However, there remain 
questions why most people  do not perceive the 
economy has improved despite Thailand’s 
impressive growth outlook. The answer lies in 
part on Thailand’s economic structure where 
benefits from economic growth are not yet 
sufficiently broad -based. This is evident as 
overall consumption growth is mainly driv en by 
increases in purchasing power from medium - 
and high -income earners8/. On the other hand, 
low-income households remain cautious on 
spending because their income recovery has yet to be more robust. In theory, macroeconomic 
spillovers are transmitted to  economic agents at the micro level through the labor market. That is, 
more jobs are created and income are raised, which will lead to higher consumption. Consequently, 
businesses will increase investment in response to demand expansion.  
However, the abov e labor market mechanism has been constrained by ongoing structural 
challenges currently facing the Thai economy.  Household debt remains high, while income growth 
does not catch up due to (1) structural problems in the labor market, (2) aging, (3) and tec hnology 
advancements that alter consumption behavior, savings, and investment. If these structural 
challenges are not addressed today by both the private sector and coordination of government 
economic policies, these issues will become barriers for Thailan d to achieve inclusive growth now 
as well as in the future.  
Thailand’s labor market is facing declining labor force while existing skills do not match 
demand in the fast -changing economy  
There are  three  structural changes in the Thai labor market. First, Thailand has faced 
labor force constraints9/, given there is a smaller number of young workforce while older workers 
increasingly retire. In fact, the Thai labor force already reached its peak in 2012 at 39.4 million. 
Since then, the number of the Thai lab or force has slowly declined and thus Thailand becomes 
partly reliant on workers from neighboring countries. Second, demand for labor has changed 
due to technology advancements.  In particular, as more automation and industrial robots have 
been used in prod uction, demand for labor has changed in terms of both quantity and skill sets. 
For example, jobs declined in the electronics industry despite greater production in tandem with 
exports. In this light, the affected workers are mostly those with routine tasks  such as those in the 
                                           
8/ See further in Box: Assessing private consumption recovery in Monetary Policy Report , March 2018  
9/ Thailand has started aging since 2004 and is expected to become an aged society in 2025. According to the 
definition by the United Nations, there are three  stages of aging based on the ratio of the elderly to total 
population:  
 (1) an aging society consists of at least 10 percent of over 60 year olds, or at least 7 percent of over 65 year olds;  
 (2) an aged society consists of at least 20 percent of over 60 year olds, or at least 14 percent of over 65 year olds;   
 (3) a super -aged society consists of at least 20 percent of 65 year olds.   
-10-5051015
2013 Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q1 2018 Q1Change in inventories
Imports of goods and services (54.6 percent)
Exports of goods (51.6 percent)
Private Gross fixed capital formation (17.8 percent)
Private final consumption expenditure (48.8 percent)
Government expenditure (22.4 percent)
Export of services (16.6 percent)
Gross domestic product (GDP)PercentChart 1 Thai economy continues to gain traction  due to 
merchandise exports and exports of services and also by 
the recent strengthening of domestic demand. 
Note   () denotes share to GDP in 2017
Source: NESDB, calculation by Bank of Thailand  Contribution to GDP growth by componentMonetary Policy Report June  2018  29       
  production line and machinery supervision. Moreover, demand for labor is rising for modern 
businesses in technology products and the services sector. Nonetheless, over 40 percent of Thai 
labor are in agriculture which accou nts for only   percent of the country’s GDP. Third, the ability 
of Thailand’s education system to produce skilled labor does not keep up with demand in 
the fast -changing economy.  This is reflected in new graduates now taking longer time to find a 
job despi te no increase in the number of new graduates each year. In addition, most unemployed 
new graduates are in the fields of social sciences, business, and law.  
Aging society and technology advancement have altered consumption, saving, and investment  
behavior s.  
Since Thailand’s enter to an aging society in  00 , a larger number of older population 
have increasingly relied on the working age group10/. The dependency ratio is expected to rise 
from 19.7 in 2010 to 58.3 in 2040 (Chart 2).  In other words, in just around 20 years, ten working -
age persons will have to take care more elderly persons —from two old -age persons in 2010 to 
approximately six old -age persons in 2040. As a result, Thailand will face several structural 
challenges as some consumers have downsized their present consumption and instead 
saved more for retirement.  In fact, this is reflected by an upward trend in the savings -to-GDP 
ratio since Thailand entered aging society (Chart 3).  This will indeed hamper the potential of private 
consumption growth in the long term on top of the high debt level which currently weighs on 
consumption. Thus, these challenges must be addressed by structural policies that aim to support 
private consumption to expand in a strong and sustainable m anner in the long run. These may 
include policies to promote saving and efficient investment for better returns as well as retirement 
policy for various labor groups.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
The above structural challenges —declining labor force, shortage of labor whose skills are 
wanted by modern businesses, and falling purchasing power as a result of aging society —have 
made Thailand less attractive in the eyes of both Thai and foreign investors compared with other 
countries in the region, and consequentially lowered investment in Thailand . In addition, 
                                           
10/ Dependency rate of aging population is calculated from (old -age population/working -age population) x100  
020406080100
 010  015  0 0  0 5  030  035  0 0Total Child (0-14 years) Elder (60 years and above)PercentChart 2 Ten working -age persons will have to take care 
more elderly from two old -age persons in 2010 to 
approximately six in 2040
Note  Dependency ratio  refers to child, elder or both per 100 working age population
Youth Dependency ratio calculated as (number of children    Working age 
population)  x 100
Dependency ratio  of aging population calculated as (number of elders /  
Working age population)  x 100
        Total dependency ratio calculated as  children and elders  / Working age 
population ) x 100
Source:  Estimated population for Thailand 2010 -2040   NESDBDependency ratio
024681012
1  0
1  1
1   
1  3
1   
1  5
1   
1   
1  8
1   
 000
 001
 00 
 003
 00 
 005
 00 
 00 
 008
 00 
 010
 011
 01 
 013
 01 
 015
 01 PercentChart 3 Demographic transition to aging population 
prompts households to save more for retirement  
Source:  NESDB, calculation by Bank of Thailand  Household savings to  Gross domestic product (GDP)
Demographic transtion to aging populationMonetary Policy Report June  2018  30       
  technology disruption has largely affected both consumption and busin ess patterns such 
as shopping via social media and e -commerce platforms, ride -hailing mobile applications, and 
online news as opposed to press and television media. Thus, traditional businesses have to face 
fierce competition as well as lower investment in  old businesses and technology. Thus, 
businesses have adapted and invested in intangible assets  to boost efficiency such as ICT 
systems and software, which requires a relatively smaller budget than investment in 
buildings and machines.  In addition, advance d technology enables production efficiency through 
automation as well as creating a sharing economy environment. As a result, businesses do not 
need a large investment in machines compared with the past  to maintain the same level of 
production11/. Moreover,  companies no longer have to invest in countries with low labor costs. 
Hence, with such investment structure, private investment in monetary terms remained in a low 
level relative to the past.  
Structural challenges must be addressed with structural reform  policy  
Economic policy can be generally categorized into three groups: fiscal policy, monetary 
policy, and structural reform policy. Fiscal policy  includes tax collection and public spending. In 
recent periods, the government has pushed large infrastructu re investment projects and 
earmarked the budget on various economic stimulus programs, as reflected in the average budget 
deficit of around 2.8 percent to GDP during fiscal years 2015 -2017. The government also aimed 
at resolving disbursement and investment  delays through a disbursement acceleration measure. 
In addition to these policy measures, the government also supports low -income households to 
facilitate necessary adaptations through programs such as the government welfare card scheme 
and the debt relie f measure for small farmers. Meanwhile, monetary policy  entails determination 
of the policy interest rate, which has been maintained at an accommodative level at 1.50 percent 
since April 2015 to support economic growth, stabilize inflation, as well as ensu re financial stability. 
In addition, the Bank of Thailand oversees the exchange rate to curb excessive volatility in order 
to enable the private sector to adjust to market conditions in a timely manner. Nevertheless, 
neither fiscal nor monetary policy can entirely solve the problems currently faced by the 
Thai economy. Instead, structural challenges must be tackled by appropriate structural 
reform policy . For instance, first, labor policy is a key structural policy, which should be 
addressed more on the eco nomic dimension in addition to the social, welfare, and security 
aspects.  In particular, policy should aim at improving labor skills to meet the demand of the modern 
economy. Such policy must target both potential workers who are currently in school as wel l as 
those already in the labor market in order to make a direct impact on productivity and wages. 
Second, agricultural policy  involves the majority of Thailand’s labor force in terms of both number 
of labors and geographical area. Government price interve ntion may help farmers in the short 
run; however, a long -term solution to sustainably raising farm income must aim at 
increasing crop yields and reducing costs through several measures.  These include research 
on high -yield crops, agricultural zoning for su itable land use, water management, and publication 
of weather forecasts. Nonetheless, most Thai farmers are quite old and often move between the 
agricultural sector and other sectors. Therefore, there remains a challenge to accumulate 
investment as well as  adopting innovation in the agricultural sector for better yield and higher 
income.  
 
                                           
11/ Based on interviews with businesses in Bank of Thail and’s Business Liaison Program  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  31       
  The integration of economic policy for well -being in the short and long terms  
Monetary policy at the current juncture remains accommodative to facilitate eased 
monetary and financial conditions despite tightening global monetary conditions. Fiscal policy is 
currently at its full capacity in stimulating economic growth through both c urrent expenditure and 
capital expenditure on large infrastructure investment. Although both policies have brought back 
growth momentum, they are only short -term policy tools that are employed to nurture the economy 
during a cyclical downturn. In the long term, however, raising Thailand’s economic potential 
requires structural reform policies. Fiscal and monetary policies alone can neither sustain 
continued growth in the long run nor ensure spillovers of the economic benefits across all sectors. 
Relevant pa rties involved must focus on pushing various structural reform policies to successfully 
take place as they will foster the Thai economy to sustainably grow both in the short and long run.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report June  2018  32       
  The Impact of exchange rates on the Thai Economy  
The impact of exchange rates on the Thai economy can be twofold. On the one hand, an 
abrupt appreciation or a continued strengthening trend may weaken the country’s price 
competitiveness or reduce export revenue in baht terms. These, in tu rn, affect wages in export -
oriented firms and consumers’ purchasing power due to their lower income, which may eventually 
result in slower economic growth. Nevertheless, these channels are only one side of the coin when 
assessing impact of exchange rates o n the Thai economy. On the other hand, exchange rate 
appreciation helps lower producers’ import costs of raw materials as well as delaying an increase 
in consumers’ costs of living, especially when global energy prices swiftly increase. The objective 
of th is article is to examine the relationship between exchange rates and various economic 
sectors. The findings suggest that the effects of exchange rate appreciation on the overall 
economy are limited, yet the impact differs for each sector in the economy.  The results can 
be summarized in Table 1 as follows.   
Table 1  A summary of the impact of exchange rates on the Thai economy  
Economic Sector  Effect of a 1 -percent baht appreciation  Notes  
Effects on GDP  The Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) that appreciates by 1 percent leads to a 
decline in GDP of around 0.02 percent within 1 year.  
1. Corporate sector  
1.1 Exports  -  Export prices  
   Increase by 0.3 percent  
   (in U.S. dollar terms)  
   Reduce by 0.7 percent (in baht terms)  
-  Export volume  
  Continuously declining and statistically 
 insignificant effects  
 - Diverse impact across businesses  
  Low value -added businesses face 
 greater impact  
-  Foreign demand has a greater role 
 than exchange rates  
1.2 Imports  -  Import prices  
   Increase by 0.2 percent  
   (in U.S. dollar terms)  
   Reduce by 0.8 percent (in baht terms)  
-  Import volume  
  Statistically insignificant effects  
 -  Domestic demand has a greater role 
 than exchange rates  
 
1.3 Corporate profits  The impact on firm profitability differs across business characteristics and types  
Negative effects on export -oriented firms, but positive effects on import -oriented firms 
(as well as businesses with imported raw material)  
 
2. Household sector  
2.1 Wage, income  
and household 
earnings  Limited impact as no single sector records 
a positive correlation coefficient between 
their earnings growth and exchange rates 
larger than 0.3  
  
2.2 Inflation  Decrease by 0.03 percent due to falling 
energy prices  Firms’ domestic price s etting is 
influenced by factors other than 
exchange rates  
 
 Monetary Policy Report June  2018  33       
  1. The impact of exchange rates on the Thai economy: the corporate sector  
1.1 The relationship between exchange rates and exports  
 Considering the relationship between 
growth of export value and exchange rates 
over the past 10 years, the results suggest 
that several periods of baht appreciation 
against the U.S. dollar, such as in 2010 -
2011 and 2017, coincided with strong 
export growth  US (Chart 1). Conversely, in 
some periods, such as in 2009 and 2014 -
2015, despite the weakening of the baht, 
export value contracted. Indeed, in addition 
to exchange rates, export value may be 
driven by other factors as well,  for instance 
trading partners ’ income or even specific 
factors such as structural economic 
problems that could arise either domestically 
or externally.  
 In order to study and compare the importance of exchange rates and other factors on 
exports, the analysis needs to be complemented by econometric models. The estimation results 
on the relationship between export volume and the Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER)12/ show 
that the appreciation of REER reduces export volume in line with theories. Nevertheless, the 
elasticity of exports to  exchange rate movements is found to be lower over time, suggesting a 
weaker link between the REER and export volume. In particular, a 1 percent appreciation of the 
REER in the past would reduce export volume by approximately 0.6 percent13/. However, 
the elasticity now decreases to around 0.3 percent and becomes statistically insignificant 
during the past two years. Moreover, exchange rates have much less impact on export 
volume than income -related factors.   
 The above findings are mainly attributed to a n umber of factors. First, participation in 
global value chains (GVC)  in many countries is regarded by the literature in other countries as 
one of the main reasons explaining the reduced exchange rate effects on export volume over the 
recent periods. Second,  gradual adjustments of businesses take place by enhancing value -
added of products, which in turn strengthen the competitiveness of goods sold. Third,  greater use 
of regional currencies and the baht to settle trade transactions  by exporters in CLMV and 
Chinese markets secure their revenue in baht terms from U.S. dollar volatilities. This, therefore, 
helps mitigate the impact of exchange rates on export volume, since risks from the excessive 
reliance on the U.S. dollar are diversified away, thereby enabling more efficient management of 
revenue.  
 
                                           
12/  The estimate is from a short -term equation in the error correction model %∆qx_sa t=f( ∆REER t,  ∆tpgdp t, 
dummy_flood t, dummy_crisis t,  ∆ECM t-1), exploiting quarterly data during 2000Q1 and 2017Q4. Literature in 
other countries often use the REER, as opposed to bilateral exchange rates vis -à-vis the U.S. dollar, to reflect 
actual competitiveness against all trading partners. 
13/  Estimated using quarterly data between 2000 -2012  
15.5
-14.326.8
15.1
2.9
-0.3 -0.5
-5.80.59.933.334.2
31.6
30.531.1
30.732.534.335.3
33.9
2931333537
-20-100102030
 008 00  010 011 01  013 01  015 01  01 Growth of exports value
Annual average exchange rates%baht per US dollarChart 1 Overall exports value appears to have no 
correlations with exchange rate movements  
Source: Thai Customs Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandGrowth of exports value  (US dollar, Custom basis) relative to 
exchange rates ( annual average)
AppreciationMonetary Policy Report June  2018  34       
   Regarding the relationship between exchange rates and export prices, a 1 percent 
strengthening of the baht against the U.S. dollar is found to increase export prices in US 
dollar terms by only 0.314/ percent on average. This result suggests limited ability to pass 
on costs of baht appreciation to export prices in order to maintain revenue in baht terms  
(incomplete exchange rate pass -through) and implies that export revenue in baht terms per a unit 
of goods will fall by approximately 0.7 percent. Hence, overall adverse consequences faced by 
exporters stem from converting their revenue to baht terms, rather than from losing their 
competitiveness.  
 According to the analyses,  the effects of exchange rates differ across industries   
(Chart 2) and can be classified into two groups as follows.  
 1st Group : Businesses, whose 
export volume faces a large, adverse 
impact from baht appreciation , mostly 
belong to industries with low valu e-added 
export products such as rice and processed 
agricultural products. These products are 
less sophisticated and hence can be easily 
substituted. Yet, their exporters tend to raise 
prices to fix revenue in baht terms, while 
importers abroad can promptly  switch to 
order products from competitors instead. The 
strengthening baht, therefore, has a large 
impact on export volume. Nevertheless, in 
the case of rubber, despite being a low value -
added good given that Thailand exports 
primary rubber products, excha nge rates 
unexpectedly yield insignificant effects on both export prices and volume. This is owing to the fact 
that export prices of rubber are determined by global prices in the futures market, as opposed to 
rice that is traded over the counter (OTC), i.e ., directly between buyers and sellers.  
 2nd Group : Businesses whose export prices and volume are not significantly 
affected by exchange rates . This group consists of (1) industries with high participation in GVC, 
including high -technology goods produced by large multinational corporations (MNCs) such as 
electronics, electrical appliances, and automobiles, where their raw materials contain high 
proportion of import content  or a natural hedge15/; (2) businesses that export goods whose prices 
move along with  crude oil prices such as petroleum products, chemicals and petrochemicals. 
These goods are commodities and their prices vary according to the global market. Hence, they 
are largely influenced by sentiment towards the U.S. dollar relative to major currenci es rather than 
by the baht itself.  
 Exports of products from the second group amount to 40 percent of total exports in 
2017 and will likely continue to rise, particularly for industries with high participation in 
GVC. At the same time, the share of product s in the 1st group is only 17 percent. Hence, the 
overall impact of exchange rates on export volume is expected to decline.  
                                           
14/  The estimate is from a short -term equation in the error correction model %∆pxt=f( ∆USDTHB t,  ∆dubai t,   
     ∆ECM t-1), exploiting quarterly data during 2000Q1 and 2017Q4.  
15/  Firms with a natural hedge are those with similar import and export shares, or matching shares of revenue and 
expenditure flows in foreign currencies. These help limit the impact from converting revenue in foreign -currency 
terms to baht terms. 
-3-2-1012
Rice Rubber Processed
agricultural
productsPetroleum/
Chemical
productsAuto Electronics/
electrical
appliancesExport volume Export prices in US dollar term
** ** *%Chart 2 The effects of exchange rates on exports differ 
across industries
Sensitivity to exchange rates when exchange rates moves by one percent 
(data from 2002 to 2018)
Source: Thai Customs Department, calculations by the BOT
Note : (1) Price equation %∆pxt=f( ∆bilatFXt,  ∆othert) 
(2) Volume equation %∆qx_sat=f( ∆reert,  ∆tpgdpt, ∆othert) 
(3) * and     indicate statistical significance levels at 10% and 5%, respectively  
(4) Petroleum related  consists of chemical products, petrochemical products, 
and petroleum products. 
(5) Numbers in ( ) denote shares to total exports value in 2017Group 1 Group  
(2.2%) (2.5%) (12.3%) (11.5%) (15.0%) (20.6%)Monetary Policy Report June  2018  35       
  1.2 The relationship between exchange rates and imports  
Theoretically, appreciation of the baht should lower import prices in baht terms, which in 
turn leads to greater demand for imports. Nevertheless, the estimates in Thailand’s case show 
that, similar to export volume, exchange rate appreciation does not hav e statistically 
significant effects on overall import volume (export elasticity to the REER stands at around 
0.3 percent16/). Import volume is in fact driven by demand factors, both domestic 
consumption and investment, as well as export volume, rather than by exchange rates.  This 
is because 80 percent of Thailand’s imported goods are capital goods, raw materials and 
intermediate goods that Thailand can neither produce nor produce enough to serve their demand. 
These include large industrial machinery which re quires sophisticated technology, crude oil, steel 
and metals, and electronic parts linked with production process under the GVC17/.  Meanwhile, the 
study of relationship between exchange rates and import prices shows that a 1 percent 
appreciation of the bah t against the U.S. dollar results in an increase of import prices in 
U.S. dollar terms on average by around 0.2 percent.  This is owing to upward adjustments of 
selling prices by trading partners abroad to maintain their revenue in local -currency terms. Thi s 
often occurs when the U.S. dollar weakens and implies that import costs in baht terms per  
a unit of goods faced by Thai importers will decrease by approximately 0.8 percent . 
1.3 The relationship between exchange rates and corporate profits  
Exchange rates yield varying effects on prices and quantity  of exports and imports. 
As a result, their impact on corporate sector profitability differs across characteristics and 
types of businesses.  The analysis considers the relationship between exchange rates and  an 
operating profit margin (OPM) of firms listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) which are 
classified into18/ (1) the export -oriented group whose main revenue is derived from exports, (2) the 
import -oriented group whose main operating expenses are due to imports, and (3) the group with 
a natural hedge (Figure 3). The findings are as follows.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
16/  The estimate is from a short -term equation in the error correction model %∆qm_sa t=f( ∆REER t,   
     ∆domdemand_sa t,  ∆qx_sa t,  ∆ECM t-1), exploiting quarterly data during 2000Q1 and 2017Q4. 
17/  Literature in other countries suggest that, in counties with extensive links with GVC, the exchange rates neither 
affect volume of exports nor imports.  
18/ This study classifies firms into export -oriented, import -oriented and natural -hedge firms by the ratio [insert 
formula], where X denotes export and import value, respectively. Such ratio lies between -1 and 1. The ratio 
close to -1, 1, 0 implie s that firms are import -oriented , export -oriented or have a natural hedge, respectively. 
The  study focuses only on businesses with more -than-30 percent share of exports to total revenue, or with 
more -than-30 percent share of imports to total production co sts of goods and services.  
Chart 3 Exchange rate movements correlates with operating profit margins 
of firms according to business characteristics.  
05101520
29303132333435363.54.55.56.57.58.59.5
2930313233343536024681012
2930313233343536OPM (%)
Correation = 0.7 Correation = -0.513 firmsFirms with natural hedge
baht per US dollar OPM (%)66 firmsExport -oriented firms
80 firmsImport -oriented firms
OPM (%)
Note: The dots in each figures display  average OPMs of businesses for each time period based on 
quarterly data during Q4/2011 –Q1/2018
Source   The Stock Exchange of Thailand and Thai Customs Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandExchange rates and profitability of firms listed on the Stock Exchange of Thailand
baht per US dollar baht per US dollar Monetary Policy Report June  2018  36       
  (1) An operating profit margin of export -oriented corporates is positively correlated 
with the baht value. That is, their margin declines whenever  the baht appreciates.  The finding 
is in line the conclusion from section 1.1, which shows that export -oriented firms are affected 
mainly through the conversion of their revenue into baht terms. Moreover, the effects of the baht 
value on a profit margin al so depend on the prevalence  of transactions to prevent exchange rate 
risks. It is found that industries with limited transactions on exchange rate risk management, such 
as textile, rubber and plastics, and machinery and equipment manufacturing industries, experience 
a greater impact than other industries.  
 
(2) For import -oriented firms whose main revenue is derived from domestic sales 
of goods and services, their profit margin varies negatively with the baht value. In other 
words, the margin rises as the baht s trengthens . Thanks to baht appreciation, such businesses 
can save on import costs of raw materials, capital goods and consumer goods. This in turn helps 
facilitate consumption and investment, particularly for investment with extensive import content. 
Follo wing baht appreciation, sectors with significantly improved profit margin include wholesale 
and retail businesses. This is due to their business feature that serves as an intermediary to 
purchase goods in foreign currency and sell them locally in baht term s. Other industries include 
energy and electronics industries.  
 
(3) For firms with a natural hedge, their profit margin is found to be uncorrelated 
with exchange rates , as their revenue and expenses in foreign currencies can be partly balanced 
out, thus limiti ng the exchange rate impact. For those export -oriented corporates that are not 
listed on SET, since they are mostly MNCs, the correlation between exchange rates and 
their profit margin is also expected to be low.  Based on interviews with businesses, most M NCs 
have natural hedge and tend to highly and consistently engage in financial transactions that 
prevent exchange rate risks in compliance with their parent company’s policies, or else the parent 
company may commit such risk -management transactions on beha lf of them.  
 
2. The impact of exchange rates on the Thai economy: the household sector  
2.1 The relationship between exchange rates and household wage, salary and earnings  
The relationship between household earnings and exchange rates exists if households 
have affiliations with businesses affected by exchange rates through import or export channels, 
either as business owners or as employees whose earnings are derived from wage and salary. 
This is because firms may reduce their production costs by cutting wa ges whenever their profits 
or revenue are adversely affected by exchange rates either from declines in export volume or 
revenue in baht terms. The analysis in this part will focus on the relationship between exchange 
rates and household earnings across bus iness sectors that can supplement the results found in 
the previous section19/. 
Having been on an appreciating trend since 2014, the recent baht movements are 
compared with household earnings, which can be classified into two groups: (1) agricultural 
                                           
19/ This study considers the relationship between exchange rates and average earnings, as opposed to 
employment, since Thailand’s employment is, to a large extent, influenced by various structural factors. These 
include seasonal l abor movements across agricultural and non -agricultural sectors, greater adoption of 
automation technology in production line, and declining labor force due to aging society.  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  37       
  household income and (2) average hourly earnings of non -agricultural employees20/. The 
correlation between earnings and exchange rates is found to be weak for both groups 
(Chart 4). In particular, despite the rising baht value since mid -2016, farm income still experienced 
high growth, while non -farm income did not show any clear relationship with exchange rates in 
any business sector. Furthermore, considering a correlation coefficient between earnings 
growth in each sector and exchange rates since 2006, no single sector records a positive 
coefficient that is larger than 0.3. The result suggests a limited impact of exchange rate 
movements on wages.  This is attributed to the f act that, first, agricultural income usually depends 
on demand and supply in the global market which vary more with other factors, particularly weather 
conditions. For instance, droughts and floods at times affected rice and rubber, respectively. 
Second, o ther non -agricultural industries face a limited impact from exchange rates according to 
the analysis shown in section 1.1. Furthermore, some businesses have altered their employment 
patterns owing to structural changes in the labor market, especially after  the minimum wage 
increase to 300 baht in 2013. The move has induced automobile businesses to reduce temporary 
workers in times when foreign demand drops. Processed food businesses have switched to hire 
daily workers whose earnings per hour are lower by ha lf. In addition, the production within 
electronic industries has become less labor intensive due to the adoption of automation 
technology. Although the baht steadily weakened, growth of labor earnings did not pick up much 
as reflected in the low, despite b eing positive, correlation in certain industries. Moreover, structural 
issues in the labor market can explain why Thai economic recovery over the recent periods that 
are driven by export growth is yet to transmit clear and positive spillovers on employment . 
Therefore, it may be concluded that the recent baht appreciation did not significantly 
influence household income but did have a greater impact on corporate profits.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
20/ The data on average earnings per hour of non -agricultural workers are obtained  from the Labor Force Survey. 
Meanwhile, income from sales of agricultural products, i.e., rice and rubber, is calculated from their prices and 
volume, which should reflect farmers’ overall income.  
-20-15-10-505101520
-80-60-40-20020406080
USDTHB (RHS) Rice (-0.43) Rubber (-0.59)-20-15-10-505101520
-80-60-40-20020406080
USDTHB (RHS) Processed food (-0.29)
Electronics (0.14) Auto (0.02)
Petroleum (0.12)Exchange rate movements and income of each industries compared with 
the same period last yearChart   The correlation between household income and exchange rates 
is found to be weak.    
% %Farm income Average earnings of workers outside agricultural sector
Source: The Labor Force Survey, the Ministry of Labor,  and calculations by Bank of ThailandNote: Numbers in ( ) denote correlation values between growth of hourly wages and exchange rates 
based on quarterly data during 2006 -2017, where the positive value indicates the baht depreciation 
against the US dollar. Baht appreciation period% %
Baht appreciation periodMonetary Policy Report June  2018  38       
  2.2  The relationship between exchange rates and household expenditure  
The impact of exchange rates on costs of living can be unveiled from the relationship 
between exchange rate movements and inflation, where the former affects the latter through 
altering costs of goods. For example, if the baht depreciates, impo rt costs in baht terms will 
increase. Firms will, therefore, have incentives to pass such burden to consumers by raising their 
prices to maintain their profit margin. However,  firms’ domestic price setting may be influenced 
by factors other than exchange r ates, such as costs of price adjustment, costs of other 
production factors as well as demand for goods. This again differs across product categories. In 
addition, firms may encounter constraints on their price adjustments, such as the influence from 
price policies of product owners and global market prices, as well as intensified competition among 
firms. Therefore, the assessment of the relationship in this part will make use of econometric 
models across major product categories in the inflation basket cons isting of energy, fresh food and 
core inflation (i.e., excluding energy and fresh food) categories. A positive and statistically 
significant coefficient of exchange rates21/ or the elasticity will reflect the exchange rate impact on 
prices of each product c ategory.  
The results show that exchange rates mainly affect energy prices (Chart 5), particularly 
domestic retail oil prices. This is because retail oil production relies on imported raw material to a 
larger extent compared with other products. In additio n, the government allows pricing mechanism 
in the domestic retail market to reflect costs which are driven by global market prices. This is 
particularly the case for pricing of oil containing benzene such as gasohol 95 and 91. This results 
in a greater pas s-through of the exchange rate impact onto retail oil prices relative to other 
products. Nevertheless, given the relatively small share of energy products in the inflation basket,  
the elasticity of headline inflation to exchange rates is not large . That is , if the baht 
strengthens by 1 percent against the U.S. dollar, headline inflation will decline by 0.03 percent. 
While exchange rates do not have a large impact on inflation, the persistently appreciating baht 
in the recent periods helped mitigate the rise  in households’ overall costs of living to 
certain extent . In the previous year (2017Q1 -2018Q1), the baht strengthened by around 11 
percent22/ against the U.S. dollar, prompting the decline of Thailand’s headline inflation by 
approximately 0.3 percent (Char t 6). 
  
 
                                           
21/ Exchange rates in the model are the bilateral baht -U.S. dollar exchange rates since 80 percent of all import 
 and export transactions made by Thai importers and exporters are settled in U.S. dollars in their settlement. 
22/ Exchange rates in the first quart er of 2017 and 2018 averaged at 35.40 and 31.53 baht per U.S. dollar, 
 respectively. 
Weights in 
the inflation basketAverage effects (%)
Energy 11.7 -0.28**
Core
(Excl. government measures )72.6 -0.01
Raw food 15.7 -0.07
Headline inflation  100 -0.03Chart  5 The impact of exchange rates on consumer price index 
by major product categories in the case when exchange rate 
appreciates by one percent
Note :    and     indicate statistical sigficance levels at  0% and  5%, respectively
1/ includes only product categories with statistical significant correlations such as energy 
Equations :%∆core_nomeasuret= f( ∆coret-1,  ∆bilatFXt, output gapt, %∆dubait,  ∆farmpricet) 
%∆freshfoodpricet= f( ∆ bilatFXt,  ∆farmpricet)
%∆energypricet= f( ∆ bilatFXt,  ∆dubait)
Source: The Ministry of Commerce and calculations by Bank of Thailand           
0.9
-0.30.6
-2-10123
Q1/2014
Q3/2014
Q1/2015
Q3/2015
Q1/2016
Q3/2016
Q1/2017
Q3/2017
Q1/2018Contribution from FX (+ = depreciation)
Contribution from other factors
Headline inflationChart   Exchange rate movements partly helps slow down 
the pace of inflation growth in the recent periods 
%
Source: The Ministry of Commerce and calculations by Bank of Thailand           Contributions to headline inflation  Monetary Policy Report June  2018  39       
  3. The net impact of exchange rates on the Thai economy  
Given the aforementioned results of the relationship between exchange rates and various 
economic sectors, effects of baht appreciation are twofold with both positive and negative 
consequences on the overall economy . Agents impacted by the baht appreciation can be 
classified into three groups. They include, first, those adversely affected by the baht 
appreciation  are export -oriented firms. The strengthening baht results in a decline in their revenue 
in baht terms, and hence affects their profit margin. Among those who experience a greater impact 
than others are certain export -oriented firms that produce low value -added goods such as rice and 
processed agricultural products a s these products can be easily substituted. Second, those who 
benefit from the baht appreciation include import -oriented firms whose expenses in baht terms 
fall as the baht value rises, and thus boosting their profit margin. Such businesses are in the 
wholesale and retail sector s. Furthermore, households do not face any large adverse effects, but 
instead receive benefits from a reduction in the cost of living through falling domestic retail oil 
prices. Third, those unaffected by baht appreciation  are export -oriented firms whose product 
prices vary with crude oil prices, and export firms with a natural hedge. The latter includes, for 
example, industries with active participation in GVC such as electronics since their raw materials 
consist of high import conte nt as well as their active management of exchange rate risks.  
The impact assessment in this article mainly relies on single -equation models in order to 
separately identify the effects of exchange rates on different transmission channels. The sectoral 
asses sments reveal that the baht appreciation has limited consequences on the Thai economy. 
The results are well in line with the estimates from a macroeconomic model that consists of a 
number of variables from the economic system, which suggest that movements in exchange 
rates do not have much influence on overall economic growth23/. The analysis hence arrives 
at the following policy implications:  
1. Monetary policy conduct that aims to weaken the exchange rates does not help 
stimulate overall export volume. Its po sitive impact will be limited among certain export 
goods.  Furthermore, the implementation of exchange rate policies to raise exports with an aim to 
improve employment, labor earnings and consumption may have weaker effects than in the past. 
This is because  the positive spillovers of export growth on these variables have become limited, 
partly owing to a greater influence from structural factors.  
 
2. Measures to slow down the pace of exchange rate appreciation have a wide -
ranging impact on the economy as well a s several consequences. These range  from 
purchases of foreign currencies by the central bank to perform currency intervention to low -
interest -rate policies, resulting in both winners and losers in the economy. In addition, the impact 
on other policies shou ld also be taken into consideration  For instance, the accumulation of 
financial stability risks following the prolonged low interest rate policy may derail public confidence 
and the effectiveness of central bank’s policies.  
 
3. To mitigate the impact of baht appreciation, well -targeted policy directed at the 
significantly affected group is recommended. This should provide a more sustainable 
solution since an exchange rate weakening policy can only solve problems in the short run.  
Over the recent periods, the Bank of Thailand has implemented several measures to pre -empt 
and mitigate the impact from volatile exchange rates. These include, promoting management of 
exchange rate risks by firms, providing knowledge and understanding of financial instruments to 
                                           
23/ The sensitivity results from the macroeconomic model suggest that a 1 -percent appreciation of the REER leads 
 to a decline in economic growth of around 0.02 percent in 1 year. Monetary Policy Report June  2018  40       
  businesses, i.e., importers and exporters, as well as promoting the use of regional currencies in 
settling international trade transactions instead of the U.S. dollar. The latter will help curb risks 
associated with a so le reliance on one major currency and improve resilience of the business 
sector. In the long run, firms should reap benefits of baht appreciation by importing raw materials 
and investing in machinery that cannot be produced domestically. At the same time, they should 
strive to improve their production efficiency or add value to products that will likely be demanded. 
For example, chemical -free organic rice can be exported at a higher price than normal rice. Rice 
and other agricultural products can be tailor -made for specific groups and customized products 
such as elderly patients, cosmetics and degradable plastic resin. These will help reduce the 
vulnerability of the economy amid exchange rate volatilities, while also enhancing the country’s 
competitiveness i n the long run.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report June  2018  41 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
2018
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
3.3 3.93.4 3.9 4.3 4.0 4.8
Production
-2.5 6.2 6.0 15.9 9.7 -1.3 6.5
3.8 3.7 3.2 3.0 4.0 4.7 4.7
Manufacturing2.3 2.6 1.9 1.0 4.2 3.4 3.7
Construction8.6 -2.3 3.2 -5.7 -1.6 -5.3 1.2
Wholesales and retail trade5.3 6.3 5.9 6.0 6.4 6.9 7.0
Hotels and restaurants9.9 8.5 5.1 7.0 6.9 15.3 12.8
Transport, storage, and communication4.1 7.3 5.3 7.8 7.4 8.8 7.1
Financial intermediation6.5 4.8 4.8 6.3 4.6 3.6 3.5
Real estate, renting, and business activities3.2 4.6 3.8 4.2 4.7 5.8 4.5
Domestic demand 2.8 2.1 2.0 1.8 2.5 2.0 3.3
Private consumption 3.0 3.2 3.1 2.9 3.4 3.4 3.6
Private investment 0.5 1.7 -1.1 3.0 2.5 2.4 3.1
Government consumption 2.2 0.5 -0.7 0.4 1.8 0.2 1.9
Public investment 9.5 -1.2 10.0 -6.9 -1.6 -6.0 4.0
Imports of goods and services-1.0 6.8 5.9 7.2 6.5 7.5 9.0
imports of goods-2.3 8.5 7.3 9.2 9.2 8.3 9.3
imports of services4.6 -0.3 0.4 -1.0 -5.0 4.0 7.8
Exports of goods and services2.8 5.5 2.7 5.1 6.9 7.4 6.0
exports of goods0.3 5.6 2.8 4.9 8.2 6.6 4.7
exports of services11.5 5.1 2.5 5.7 2.6 9.9 9.4
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars)36.5 31.9 8.8 6.4 10.1 6.5 6.6
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars)48.2 48.1 15.0 7.8 13.9 11.3 17.1
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars)-21.0 -18.2 -7.0 -5.7 0.5 -6.0 -0.7
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars)171.9 202.6 180.9 185.6 199.3 202.6 215.6
Unemployment rate (%)1.0 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.2
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%)n.a. n.a. 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.2
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of Thailand25602017
ExpenditurePercent 2559
GDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agricultureMonetary Policy Report June  2018  42  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard
2017 2018
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Apr May
1. Financial market sector
0.6 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.1
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,542.9 1,753.7 1,575.1 1,574.7 1,673.2 1,753.7 1,776.3 1,780.1 1,727.0
Actual volatility of SET index1/14.2 6.5 7.0 4.8 5.8 7.9 9.4 13.3 9.7
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 18.6 19.1 17.4 16.3 17.9 19.1 18.3 18.3 17.6
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/4.4 3.3 3.5 3.9 2.9 2.8 4.6 3.4 4.8
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 106.2 110.6 108.7 109.8 111.2 112.9 114.8 115.8 115.4
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 100.6 103.6 102.7 102.8 104.2 105.7 106.3 107.6 107.1
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR)4/6.33 6.28 6.33 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 18.0 18.2 17.8 17.9 18.4 18.2 18.1 18.3 n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 199.0 187.3 51.2 49.0 46.5 40.8 50.1 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.1 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 96.3 96.08 95.7 96.5 96.4 96.1 95 95.1 n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 79.3 78.0 78.4 78.0 77.8 78.0 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.7 n.a. 2.7 2.8 2.7 n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 2.9 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.2 3.4 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.5 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 3.7 2.6 4.1 3.4 2.8 2.6 3.2 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.7 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 8.2 8.3 8.5 7.3 8.5 8.1 7.9 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 6.5 6.6 6.2 6.0 6.4 7.8 6.9 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.7 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.5 1.8 1.6 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.7 1.6 n.a.
SMEs 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.7 n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 5 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisionsIndicators 2016 2017
Bond market
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Monetary Policy Report June  2018  43  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Apr May
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 61,452                 62,664     12,244     15,086     16,859     18,476     15,011     4,333        n.a.
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 13,409                 13,907     2,802        3,544        3,774        3,787        3,526        876            n.a.
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 20,187                 20,536     4,315        4,947        5,604        5,670        5,167        1,355        n.a.
 Condominiums 27,856                 28,221     5,127        6,595        7,481        9,019        6,318        2,102        n.a.
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 110,575              114,477   28,924     25,256     35,434     24,863     25,026     1,564        n.a.
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 19,433                 14,280     2,968        2,830        4,874        3,608        3,758        307            n.a.
Townhouses and commercial buildings 32,792                 36,571     11,183     7,665        9,831        7,892        6,032        233            n.a.
Condominiums 58,350                 63,626     14,773     14,761     20,729     13,363     15,236     1,024        n.a.
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 130.8 130.9 128.6 129.6 131.6 133.9 137.7 136.9 n.a.
Townhouses (including land) 137.6 141.2 138.3 140.0 142.6 143.7 145.9 147.1 n.a.
Condominiums 166.2 171.0 169.8 168.8 169.8 175.4 182.3 182.0 n.a.
Land 171.2 171.7 171.3 164.2 172.9 178.3 175.7 177.5 n.a.
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%)40.8 41.2 41.7 41.3 41.9 41.2 41.2 41.0 n.a.
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%)6/11.7 10.8 13.8 7.1 12.1 9.3 13.3 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)7/32.5 35.2 33.2 34.0 35.5 35.2 35.3 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 132.2 149.0 136.2 140.3 148.1 149.0 152.2 152.2 150.2
Short-term (%) 41.2 41.9 40.5 39.4 40.9 41.9 40.9 40.9 40.3
Long-term (%) 58.8 58.1 59.5 60.6 59.1 58.1 59.1 59.1 59.7
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.5 3.5 3.6
Note:
6/ Current account / Nominal GDP at the same quarter
7/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDP2017 2018
Indicators 2016 2017Monetary Policy Report June  2018  44  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
2020
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
> 9 0 0 0 0 1 2 3 4
8-9 0 0 1 1 2 3 4 5
7-8 0 1 4 3 5 7 8 8
6-7 3 6 9 7 10 11 11 11
5-6 17 16 17 12 14 15 14 14
4-5 35 25 22 17 17 16 15 14
3-4 30 25 20 19 17 15 14 13
2-3 12 17 14 16 14 12 11 11
1-2 2 7 8 12 10 9 8 8
0-1 0 2 3 7 6 5 5 5
(-1)-0 0 0 1 3 3 3 3 3
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 2
(-3)-(-2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
< (-3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2018 2019
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
2020
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
> 4.0 0 0 0 2 2 2 3 3
3.5-4.0 0 0 1 2 2 2 3 3
3.0-3.5 0 2 2 4 4 4 4 4
2.5-3.0 2 6 5 7 6 6 7 6
2.0-2.5 11 13 8 10 9 8 9 9
1.5-2.0 26 19 13 12 11 10 11 10
1.0-1.5 29 20 15 12 12 12 11 11
0.5-1.0 20 17 15 12 12 12 11 11
0.0-0.5 9 12 13 11 11 11 10 10
(-0.5)-0.0 2 7 11 9 9 9 9 9
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 3 7 7 8 8 7 7
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 1 5 5 6 6 5 6
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 3 3 4 4 4 4
< -2.0 0 0 2 4 6 7 6 7Percent2018 2019Monetary Policy Report June  2018  45  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
2020
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2
2.0-2.5 0 0 0 2 3 4 5 6
1.5-2.0 0 2 4 9 10 11 13 14
1.0-1.5 12 20 19 22 22 22 22 21
0.5-1.0 62 45 34 28 26 25 24 23
0.0-0.5 24 27 27 22 21 20 19 17
(-0.5)-0.0 1 6 12 12 11 11 11 10
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 0 3 4 4 5 5 5
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
< -2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2018 2019Monetary Policy Report June  2018  46 4.2 Data pack  
Global Economy  
Thailand’s trading partner economies continued to expand and remained a key driver of Thai 
exports going forward. Advanced economies temporarily slowed down in the first quarter due 
to unusually cold weather. Overall risks to the growth forecast tilted to the downside, in line 
with the previous assessment, owing to the U.S. trade protectionism measures, retaliation by 
major economies, and geopolitical risks. Meanwhile, headline inflation slowly trended up in 
tandem with oil prices, while inflation expectati ons remained stable. Most central banks 
maintained monetary policy accommodative stance. However, some central banks started to 
raise their policy rates following economic improvements while stabilizing financial market 
volatility.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
4550556065
 01  015  01  01  018Euro area Japan U.S.Diffusion index
Apr 18
Sources: Bloomberg and EurostatManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
China’s economic indicators
(Change from same period last year)
Note: ( ) denotes share to total investment
Source : CEICPercent
Apr 18
0102030
 015  01  01  018Retail sales Manufacturing
Total investment Investment in manufacturing (31%)
Investment in real estate (22%) Investment in infrastructure (22%)
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
 013  01  015  01  01  018Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
Philippines Thailand
Apr 18Asian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
 010 011 01  013 01  015 01  01  018United States Euro Area Japan China Asia*Percent
Apr 18Inflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note: * Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia , 
the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report June  2018  47 Thai Economy  
Economic growth continued to gain further traction, driven by growth in merchandise and 
services exports as well as gradual improvements in domestic demand. Private consumption 
continued to expand. Factors supporting overall purchasing power edged up somewhat albeit 
remaining weak. Private investment growth was more robust due to investment projects in the 
Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) area and the Public -Private Partnership (PPP) which would 
boost investor confidence. Meanwhile, public expenditur e would remain an economic driver.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
-10-5051015
Q1
2015Q2Q3 Q4Q1
2016Q2Q3Q4Q1
2017Q2Q3 Q4Q1
2018Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory 2/ GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/ 
Note: 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM )
2/ Change in inventory and statistical discrepancy
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
050100150200250300350
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Asia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaIndex of foreign tourists classified by nationality  
(3-month moving average, sessionally adjusted; January 2014 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of Tourism
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price and quantity
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2013 = 100)
859095100105110
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Value Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand
6090120150180
Oct Jan April JulThousandsFY2016 FY2017 FY2018
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulPublic spending by central government
Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
Billion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy OfficeMonetary Policy Report June  2018  48 Inflation  
Headline inflation was expected to rise in line with energy prices. Meanwhile, core inflation 
would slowly increase in some categories following gradual domestic demand expansion.  
As a result, underlying inflation indicators edged up. Short -term inflation expectations  
of businesses and professional forecasters remained unchanged, while long -term (5-year-ahead)  
inflation expectations increased.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflationContribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
Apr-May
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Apr-May
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of May 2018 , while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.Underlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2013Jul Jan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Core inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.09, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim (0.18, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.07, 0.11)
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
with bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Monetary Policy Report June  2018  49 Financial Conditions  
Short -term money market rates remained low, except for short -term government bond yields 
which rose toward the policy rate. This was due to greater supply of bonds and lower demand 
from foreign investors. Meanwhile, medium - and long -term government bond yi elds rose 
mainly due to external factors. Private credit accelerated on the back of both corporate and 
household sectors. The baht weakened against the U.S. dollar , as the dollar strengthened 
owing to better U.S. economic outlook relative to other countries  and the Fed’s signal to raise 
the federal funds rate in four times instead of three times in 2018. Moreover, investor had 
concerns on intensifying trade retaliations between the U.S. and major economies.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Movements in medium -and long -term government 
bond yields were driven mostly by external factors
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)2016 2017Government bond yields
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y
201819 Jun  182.83
2.44
2.16
1.86
1.73
1.55% p.a.
Total corporate financing by instrument*
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Billion baht
Note: *Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bonds excluding commercial banks, 
and newly issued equities.-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2016Mar May JulSep Nov Jan
2017Mar May JulSep Nov Jan
2018MarCredit Bond Equity
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120
Jan Apr JulOct Jan Apr JulOct Jan Apr JulOct Jan AprREER
USDTHB (RHS)DXYNEER
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 19 June 2018 ) 015  01  01  018Appreciation
Baht per U.S. dollar IndexThe Thai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), Nominal 
Effective Exchange Rate (NEER), and the Dollar Index (DXY)
Currency movements vis -a-vis the U.S. dollar
(19Jun 2018 compared to 30 Mar 18)
-7%-6%-5%-4%-3%-2%-1%0%
EUR
GBP
THB
INR
KRW
AUD
TWD
SGD
MYR
JPY
CNY
PHP
IDRPercent
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollar
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 19 June 2018 )Monetary Policy Report June  2018  50 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-earning (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) stayed close to the 
historical average. The P/E ratio of the Market for Alternative Investment (mai) remained high 
due to poor performance of most businesses particularly the agricult ural and services sectors 
which continued to incur losses. Meanwhile, new issuance of unrated bonds would slow down.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: household sector  
The ratio of household debt to GDP remained at a high level despite its continued declining 
since late 2015. Deleveraging was mostly concentrated among households in the Central and 
Southern regions. Meanwhile, economic growth that had yet to be broad -base d partly 
exacerbated household debt serviceability, as reflected in a higher NPL in the household 
sector especially mortgage loans. This issue warranted monitoring going forward.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand (as of May 2018)Current price -to-earning ratio and turnover ratio  of SET 
and mai
020406080100120
020406080100
Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 Sep-16 Mar-17 Sep-17 Mar-18SET turnover ratio mai turnover ratio
SET P/E ratio (RHS) mai P/E ratio (RHS) Percent times
Average P/E of mai ( 2012 -2016 )
Average P/E of SET ( 2012 -2016 )
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Corporate bonds outstanding
9 91966117127 128 89 79 68
68 68
050100150200
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
 011
 01 
 013
 01 
 015
 01 
2017/Q1
2017/Q2
2017/Q3
2017/Q4
2018/Q1
May-18Unrated
Non-investment grade
B group
A group
Number of companies issuing unrated bond  (RHS)Billion baht
(3.3%)
(1.4%)(0.6%)
(0.4%)
(1.4%)Number of companies 
issuing unrated bonds
(4.6%)(4.0%)(3.2%)(2.6%)(2.5%)(2.4%)(2.2%)
Note:  ( ) represents percent of unrated bonds in total corporate bonds
505560657075808590
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
 01  013  01  015  01  01 Percent of GDP2/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
3/Household debt and GDP data are revised. This results in the 
different debt to GDP ratios compared to the last MPR.
Source: Bank of Thailand78.0Household debt1/
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans (NPL) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
Percent
2.83.4
1.53.2
2.7
0.01.02.03.04.05.06.0
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
 011  01  013  01  015  01  01  018Consumer (Total) Home Auto Credit card PersonalMonetary Policy Report June  2018  51 Stability: corporate sector  
In the first quarter of 2018, overall stability in the corporate sector remained sound. Continued 
economic growth benefited financial positions of the corporate sector with the ratio of 
corporate debt to GDP steadily declining. However, improvements were s till concentrated in 
large corporates while financial positions of smaller businesses remained vulnerable, 
particularly for those with continued losses. Debt serviceability of small enterprises and 
businesses in some sectors would warrant close monitoring.   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand7.9
6.0
456789
Q1 
2014Q2 
2014Q3 
2014Q4 
2014Q1 
2015Q2 
2015Q3 
2015Q4 
2015Q1 
2016Q2 
2016Q3 
2016Q4 
2016Q1 
2017Q2 
2017Q3 
2017Q4 
2017Q1 
2018Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Percent
Note: *Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.Operating Profit Margin (OPM) and Return on Assets (ROA)*
-10-8-6-4-2024
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Q4 2017
Q1 2018
Smallest (Quintile 1) Small (Quintile 2) Medium (Quintile 3)
Large (Quintile 4) Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandInterest Coverage Ratio (ICR) TimeDebt serviceability at 25th percentile of each group of 
firm size
-5-3-1135791113
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2018
Q2/2015
Q1/2016
Q4/2016
Q3/2017
Q3/2015
Q2/2016
Q1/2017
Q4/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2018
Q2/2015
Q1/2016
Q4/2016
Q3/2017
Q3/2015
Q2/2016
Q1/2017
Q4/2017
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2018
Commerce Production
(exc.petro)Construction Real Estate Utilities Services OverallPercentile 25 Percentile 50 Linear trendInterest Coverage Ratio, classified by sectors 
Time
Note: * production exclude Petroleum and chemicals
Source : Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)3.0
1.74.5
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Total corporate loan Large corporate loan SME loan
Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
Q1
2.03
1.562.58
0123
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Q1Monetary Policy Report June  2018  52 Stability: real estate  
During the first four months of 2018, demand for residences expanded from the end of last 
year, as reflected in the number of residential units with newly approved loans that increased 
above the historical average. On the supply side, both newly opened low -rise and 
condominium residential units continued declining since last year as real estate developers 
focused on reducing an oversupply in the market. Meanwhile, prices of all real estate types 
increased from the end of 2017, consistent with higher land pr ices.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average* 5.35.6
012345678910
01020304050607080
 01 
 01 
Jan-16
Mar-16
May-16
Jul-16
Sep-16
Nov-16
Jan-17
Mar-17
May-17
Jul-17
Sep-17
Nov-17
Jan-18
Mar-18
Low-rise Condominium Total AverageResidential units in Bangkok and its vicinity with 
approved mortgages by commercial banks
Thousand units
Source: Bank of ThailandThousand units, 3 -month moving average 
and seasonally adjusted
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Note: *Average during 2011 -2017 , excluding periods with 
government’s stimulus measures (November 2015 -April 2016 )
New residential projects launched in Bangkok and its vicinity
Thousand unitsThousand units
3-month moving average
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), calculation by Bank of Thailand7
02468101214
0102030405060708090100
 01 
 01 
Jan-16
Mar-16
May-16
Jul-16
Sep-16
Nov-16
Jan-17
Mar-17
May-17
Jul-17
Sep-17
Nov-17
Jan-18
Mar-18
May-18
Low-rise Condominium Total AverageAverage     
Note: *Average during 2011 -2017 , excluding the flood period 
(July -December 2011 )
Condominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinity and ‘Time to go’
Note: ‘Time to go’ is the time taken for  all real estate inventory to be sold out at 
the average sales rate per month (since projects launched) given no 
additional supply.
Source: AREA and calculation by Bank of Thailand26
22
111115
01020304050
010203040
 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 Thousand units
Accumulated supply Time to go (RHS)Months
< 2 mioTHB 2-3 mio THB 3-5 mio THB 5-10 mio THB 10 mio THB
136.9147.1182.0
177.5
100110120130140150160170180190
2013Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2014Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2015Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2016Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2017Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2018Q1
Apr-18Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate price indices
Index (2009=100)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report June  2018  53 Stability: financial institutions  
The financial system remained sound with high levels of provisions, capital buffers and 
liquidity, and would be able to accommodate credit growth going forward. In the first quarter 
of 2018, credit growth continued to expand from the end of the previous ye ar. Business loans 
given to SMEs distributed to various sectors, while debt repayment was mostly made by large 
corporates. Consumer loans expanded for all purposes, especially for auto leasing purposes 
which continued to accelerate. Meanwhile, the overall NPL ratio remained stable. However, 
the NPL ratio increased for business loans extended to SMEs and those for consumer loans. 
This issue would warrant close monitoring.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Credit growth in the commercial bank system
%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumer2017 2018
Q4 Q1
SME 5.7 7.4
Consumer 6.1 7.1
Total 4.4 4.7
Corporate 3.6 3.6
Large corporate 0.0 -2.6
2.65
1.943.98
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Total NPL (%) Large Corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%)    2561
Q4 Q1
SME 4.37    
Total 2.91    
Consumer         
Large     1.66Non-performing loan (NPL)
%
Source: Bank of Thailand
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
3235444447
37150.4166.2171.9176.0
100120140160180
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
20180102030405060
Loan loss provisions (RHS) Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
16.318.5
18.2
18.0
11.815.815.615.4
4.52.72.6
2.6
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report June  2018  54 Stability: external position  
Thailand’s external stability remained strong thanks to high liquidity of foreign currencies and 
sustained current account surplus. In addition,  Thailand’s debt repayment ability was 
adequate to cover short -term external debt. External debt was below an international 
benchmark and international  reserves remained high.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP stayed below the sustainability 
threshold.  
  
 
 
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
050100150200250300
0102030405060
 00 
 010
 011
 01 
 013
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4
2018Q1Long-term debt (RHS)
Short-term debt (RHS)
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48%Billion U.S. dollar Percent
Source: Bank of ThailandReserve to short -term debt
012345
 005
 00 
 00 
 008
 00 
 010
 011
 01 
 013
 01 
 015
 01 
 01 
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4
2018Q1
Apr-18Apr 2018 = 3.6Time
Percent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability (60%)Public debt to GDP
42.5 43.740.8 41.7 41.3 41.9 41.2 41.2 41.0
0204060
 01  015 01 Q1-17 Q2-17 Q3-17 Q4-17 Q1-18 Apr-18
Other government agencies Financial state-owned enterprises
Non-financial state-owned enterprises Advance borrowing for debt restructuring
FIDF compensation Public government’s direct borrowing
Public debt to GDP
External
4.1%
Domestic
95.9%Outstanding debt as of April 2018
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from 
remaining duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
9.5%
Long -term 
90.5% 
