 
Monetary Policy Report  March 2016   
 
  
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report  
 March  2016 
Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
March  2016 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Jamlong Atikul  Member  
Mr. Porametee Vimolsiri  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Apichai Boontherawara  Member  
  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  March  2016 
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing in flationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target for 2016 and for the medium  term. The inflation target  is to a ssure the general public 
that the MPC will take necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardizing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reasons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument   
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, dat a from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover al l aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report  March  2016 
Monetary Policy Report  
March  2016 
 
 Contents  
1.  Growth and Inflation Prospects and Monetary Policy         1 
1.1 Growth and inflation prospects  2 
1.2 Monetary policy decision  11 
1.3 Appendix : Tables for supporting assumptions and forecasts  15 
BOX:  Impacts of cyclical and structural factors on the demand  19 
  for Thai  exports   
2.  Recent Economic Developments                        24 
2.1 The global economy  24 
2.2 The domestic economy  29 
2.3 Production cost and price  conditions  34 
BOX:  The resilience of private consumption in Thailand  38 
3.  Monetary and Financial Stability  41 
3.1 Financial markets     41  
3.2 Financial institutions  44 
3.3 Non-financial sectors  49 
  
 Growth and Inflation Prospects
and Monetary PolicyMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   1  1. Growth and Inflation Prospects  
and Monetary Policy  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Thai economy is projected  to grow in 2016 at a pace slower than 
estimated  in the previous Monetary Policy Report . Exports are restrained by both 
the slowdown in the global economy  and structural problems in Thailand’s  export 
sector. Private consumption and private investment  will consequently moderate . 
Meanwhile,  growth in tourism  and the government’s accelerated  disbursement  of 
funds  and various economic stimulus measures  will only partially compensate for 
the weakness in  economic momentum . For 201 7, the Thai economy is projected  to 
recover  gradually , with domestic demand acting as the main driver and tourism 
providing  continue d support . 
Headline inflation forecast for 2016 is revised  down from the previous  
projection  owing to  a significant  decline in crude oil prices. Core inflation forecast 
remains close to the previous projection , because  a hike in the excise tax for  
tobacco products partly offset s the impacts from  weakening domestic demand. For 
2017, the Committee projects  headline in flation to steadily rise  in line with  a 
gradual increase of global crude price s. Core inflation is expected to edge up  
slowly as well,  but the forecast is subject to  downside risks if demand pressures 
turn out to be less than expected.  
The Committee kept the policy interest rate unchanged at the February and 
March 2016 meetings. Financial conditions remain  accommodative, as reflected in 
real interest rates being negative and corporate funding costs remaining  low. 
Nevertheless, the Committee is mindful of risks to financial stability, especially the 
search for yield behavior and a  possibility  that investors and financial institutions 
may ha ve underpriced risks, which could contribut e to a buildup in vulnerability  in 
the domestic financial system. In addition, the Committee agree s that monetary 
policy divergence  in advanced economies  has contributed to capital flow volatility 
and baht appreciation in some  recent episodes , which  might  not be conducive  to 
the economic  recovery  as it could be . The Committee will monitor the situation 
close ly. Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   2 1.1 Growth and inflation prospects  
The Committee revise s down the 
growth forecast for 2016 from 3.5  percent  to 
3.1 percent  (Table  1.1) following the weaker 
outlook for  merchandise export s on account of  the 
slowdown of  trading partners’ economies, in 
particular Asian economies, and  also the 
moderation in  global  trade due to  shifts in the  
global trade structure. Moreover, declining export 
prices in line with global commodity prices  weigh  
on exporters’ incomes. This combination of a 
decline in  the volume of exports and weak 
agricultural  prices  in line with crude prices  has 
given rise to concerns for households about  future 
incomes . Consequently, despite lower costs of 
living on the back of a decline in domestic energy 
prices, households become  more  cautious in  
spending, leading to private consumption slow ing 
more than previously assessed . Furthermore, 
weakening demand  from abroad and the 
slowdown in  domestic consumer  spending have 
caused firms  to put on hold plans for expanding 
production capacity. Consequently, private 
investment is likely to grow at a lower  rate than 
previously estimated , despite  the anticipated 
increase in telecommunications investment  
expected  to begin in the first quarter of 2016  after 
the completion of  the auction  for licenses to 
operate the 1800 MHz and 900 M Hz frequencies.  
The public sector has contributed to  
supporting the economy more  than previously  
projected, as reflected in  increased  public  
investment thanks to  greater -than-expected 
efficiency in disbursing funds , together with an 
increase in the  budget for fiscal 2016.  The 
government has earmarked the majority of the 
revenues  to be collected  from last year’s auction 
Table 1.1 Forecast summary
Percent 2015 * 2016 2017
GDP growth 2.8 3.1 3.3
(3.5)
  Headline inflation -0.9 0.6 2.2
(0.8)
  Core inflation 1.1 0.8 1.1
(0.9)
Note : *Outturn
( ) December 2015 MPR 
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board,
Ministry of Commerce; calculations by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   3 of 4G licenses  for developing information 
technology  infrastructure . Moreover, the 
government has launched  additional  stimulus  
measures and expanded  the budget for existing  
stimulus measures, which should lend support to 
private spending to some degree.  
Tourism is projected  to grow more than 
previously estimated  on account of  a rising 
number of tourists especially from China. More 
Chinese tourists continue to visit Thailand, 
reflected growing popularity of the country  as a 
tourist destination. Meanwhile, the number of 
tourists from other countries is likely to gradually 
recover , supported by  more low -cost airline 
services to Thailan d. 
For 2017 , the Thai economy is 
projected to recover gradually  with a growth 
rate of 3.3 percent. Domestic demand will be  the 
main driver, supported  by tourism which continue s 
to grow  strongly . The export sector will still be  
weighed down by structural problems, however , 
causing  private investment to expand  only at a 
subdued rate (Table  1.1). 
With i nflatio nary pressures  turning out  
weaker  due to both lower cost -push and 
demand -pull pressures  than anticipated in the 
previous Monetary Policy Report , the 
Committee therefore  revise s down the 
projection  for headline and core inflation for 
2016 to 0.6  percent  and 0.8  percent  
respectively . The main reasons are (1) domestic 
energy prices have recently declined  in line with 
crude oil prices ; (2) crude prices are expected  to 
rise more slowly going forward than previously 
estimated ; and (3) demand -pull price  pressures 
have declined further  given that the output gap is 
expected to  close later than previously projected 
(Chart 1.1) . However , the hike in the tobacco 
Chart 1.1 Output gap
PercentMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   4 excise  duty in the first quarter of 2016  partly  helps 
push up  inflation, resulting in readings on core 
inflation edging down only slightly. For 2017 , the 
Committee projects  inflation to be higher than  
2016 on account of the increase in  oil prices 
and the narrowing of the output gap. Headline 
inflation is  forecast to be 2.2  percent  and core 
inflation 1.1  percent  (Table 1.1) . 
The Committee has incorporated  key 
economic developments into the growth and 
inflation forecasts  as summarized below.  
(1) Trading partners’ economies are 
likely to grow at a slower pace  than previously 
assessed  (Table 1.2).  
The Committee revise s down the 
projection  of trading partners’ GDP growth  
throughout  the forecast horizon . The downward 
revision is due to a further slowdown in Asian 
countries’ exports and a weaker  recovery  in 
advanced economies  than previously assessed . 
The latter  weigh s directly  on demand for Thai 
exports  and also indirectly on export prices , as the 
recovery in commodity prices will be slower than 
expected.  
The sluggish  global recovery has led to 
further monetary easing by advanced economies. 
The Committee anticipates  that the Federal 
Reserve will raise its policy interest rate  only twice 
this year,  a more gradual pace  compared with four 
rate hikes assessed  previously . This is due to (1)  
the slowdown in  Asian economies has adversely 
affect ed the U .S. recovery more than previously  
projected and (2) inflation likely remains low 
because of lower  oil prices and a stronger U .S. 
dollar . Meanwhile, the Bank of Japan and the 
European Central Bank have eased their 
monetary policy further in order to support 
economic recovery. The Committee  therefore  
Table 1.2  Growth assumptions for Thailand’s trading partners
Percent
(%YoY)Weight 
(%)20152016 2017
Dec 15 Mar 16 Mar 16
United States 14.9 2.4 2.6 2.2 2.4
Euro area 10.0 0.9 1.4 1.4 1.6
Japan 13.6 0.4 1.1 0.8 0.4
China   . 7.3 6.5 6.5 6.4
Asia (ex Japan and China)*   . 3.5 3.9 3.5 3.9
Total * 100 3.2 3.4 3.1 3.3
Notes:   Weighted by each trading partner’s share in Thailand’s total exports 
in 2014, namely Singapore (6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia 
(8%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), Korea (2.8%), and the 
Philippines (3.7%))
   Weighted by each trading partner’s share in Thailand’s total exports 
in 2014 (13 countries)Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   5 expects that th is additional monetary policy easing 
by advanced economies will contribute to  a return  
of capital flows to Asian emerging markets to seek  
the higher relative returns, leading to increased 
volatility in capital flows going forward . 
The Committee judge s the balance of risks 
to trading partners’ growth to be on the downside 
due to  the following factors . First,  Chinese and 
Asian economies may slow  further , causing 
negative impact s on advanced  economies . 
Second,  the European banking problem may 
damage  investor confidence  and weigh on the 
economic recovery more than assessed . Third,  
geopolitical risks may prolong  and affect trading  
partners’ economies more than previously 
assumed. On the other hand,  trading partners’ 
economies may expand  more than  the baseline 
assessment  if the additional monetary e asing 
turns out to have supported advanced economies’ 
recovery more  than expected . 
(2) Structural problems have affected 
merchandise exports more than  previously 
assessed.  
In addition to  the slower -than-expected 
trading partners’ recovery and weak commodity 
prices, Thai export s have been restrained  by both 
external and domestic structural problems.   External 
structural problems  come  from shifts in the global 
trade pattern  such that  several countries  increasingly  
rely less on imports  and more on intraregional trade , 
especially countries in Europe and Latin America. 
Moreover, Thai land’s  manufacturing  sector  has 
faced a number of  structural problems  that result  in 
losses of competitiveness in global markets . First,  
the severe  flooding in 2011 and po litical uncertainty 
have made Thailand less successful in attracting 
foreign direct investment . Second, changes in  global 
consumer preferences  have resulted in the Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   6 substitution of  personal computers  with smart phones 
and tablets. Consequently, as a major world 
producer of  hard disk drives  that are components for 
personal computers , Thailand has been  significantly  
affected. Third,  the loss of the European Union’s 
Generalized Scheme of Preferences (GSP) 
privileges makes Thai exports less competitive 
compared with  countries with the GSP. These 
structural problems  have resulted in  Thailand 
benefit ing less from  the recovery of trading partners’ 
economies  (Chart 1.2)  (Box: Impacts of Cyclical  and 
Structural Factors on the Demand for Thai Exports ). 
The Committee  therefore  project s a delay in the  
recovery of Thai exports and revise s down the 
projection  of this year’s export value to be a 
contraction of 2  percent from last year , 
attributable to a decline in both  quantity and 
price s. 
This weaker outlook for exports  weigh s 
on domestic spending and investment . 
Households have become  more cautious  in 
spending due to  concerns about employment and 
income prospects , especially those in connection 
with the export -oriented  manufacturing industries . 
This has led to a slowdown in  private 
consumption , especially evident in the aftermath  
of a surge in consumption , which can be attributed 
partly to  accelerated automobile purchases  prior 
to the excise tax increase  and partly to the 
government’s economic stimulus measures at the 
end 2015.1/ Moreover, falling global  and domestic 
demand affect s firms’  income prospect s, and 
together with existing spare capacity  firms have 
not seen  the need for  investment to expand  
production capacity. Thus, the recovery in private 
                                                        
1/ The government’s tax deduction measure at the end of 
2015 allowed taxpayers to claim an income tax deduction 
by the amount spent on goods and services during  
December 25 -31 up to 15,000 baht.  
80120160200
90110130150
                        World imports
Trading partners' GDP
Thai exports (RHS)Index (seasonally adjusted)   base year  = 2005Chart  1  2  World imports, trading partners’ GDP,
and Thai exports
Source: Netherlands Bureau for Economics, calculation by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   7 investment is expected to  take place later than 
previously estimated . 
(3) The number of tourists has risen  
significantly  and will likely increase  more  than 
the previous  assessment . 
Exports of services are expected to  grow 
strongly, as reflected in the increase in the number 
of tourists  that is  higher than previous ly forecast. 
This is a result of more  low-cost airline routes to 
Thailand due to  intensifying competition. 
Moreover, more Chinese tourists travel by cars 
crossing the northern border to Thailand via new  
routes . The number of Chinese tourists has thus 
grown  rapidly , accounting  for the highest share  of 
foreign visitors to Thailand in 2015  and expected 
to continue growing in 2016 and 2017 . In addition,  
the number of tourists from other countries likely 
continue s to recover . The Committee therefore  
expects the number of tourists to reach  32.4 
million  in 2016 , up from  the previous  forecast of 
30.9 million, an d 34.4 million in 2017 . 
(4) An increase in public investment  
that is more than expected  and additional 
economic  stimulus measure s have contributed 
to sustaining  the economy . 
The Committee revise s up the projection  of 
public investment  from the previous assessment  in 
accordance with  the government’s investment 
budget spending  with details  as follows. First,  the 
government’s measures to increase efficiency  in 
spending have accelerated  investment 
commitment and disbursement of funds  at the 
beginning of the fiscal year (Chart 1.3) . 
Consequently, this year’s disbursement of the  
central government ’s investment  budget  is expected 
to be higher than the previous estimate . Second,  
3.4  .  .   .   . 
020406080100
FY20
12FY20
13FY20
14FY20
15FY20
16Remaining purchase order
Cummulative disbursement
Cummulative purchase orderPercentage of total capital budgetChart 1.3 Central government’s purchase order and 
disbursement of capital budget
FY
2012FY
2013FY
2014FY
2015FY
2016Cummulative purchase order in January
Note :  Excluding transfers  to local government and revolving fund 
Source: Comptroller General’s DepartmentMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   8 the National Legislative Assembly has approv ed 
a supplementary budget for fiscal 2016 ,2/ given 
an increase in  revenue s from the auction of licenses 
to operate 1800 MHz and 900 MHz , of which the 
government has earmarked the majority for 
developing information technology infrastructure . 
Third, t he Cabinet has approved a draft  budget 
for fiscal 20173/ that is larger than expected , 
especially investment  expenditure . Incidentally, 
state-owned enterprise investment  has been in line  
with the previous projection ; extra -budgetary 
investment  is slightly delayed , attributed  to 
investment  in water resource management projects 
by the Royal Irrigation Department . 
In addition to  an increase in  investment  
spending , the government has launched additional 
economic stimulus measures in the first quarter of 
20164/ and expanded the budget for existing 
measures,5/ which should lend support to private 
consumption and investment  to some extent . 
Furthermore, government consumption has turned 
out to be close to the Committee’s previous 
projection.  
The Committee judge s the balance of risks 
to public spending to be titled to the upside.  Upside 
risks involve the possibility that the government may 
speed up  disbursement  of on -budget and extra -
budgetary investment outlays  more than expected. 
Further more , state -owned enterprises may be able 
to expedite new investment  sooner than anticipated . 
                                                        
2/ Approved on February 18, 2016 . 
3/ Approved on February  2, 2016 . 
4/ Stimulus measures aimed at strengthening the economy 
at the grassroots level in line with Pracha Rat : state funds 
will be provided to Village Funds to support infrastructure 
investment projects in local communities.  
5/ Stimulus measures providing l ow interest rate loans to 
SMEs and for property purchases.  Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   9 In contrast, downside risks are related to  limited  
efficiency  of spending  disbursement by government 
agencies.   
(5) Crude oil prices drop  lower than 
expected  in the first quarter of 2016  and are 
projected to recover at a  pace slower than 
previously estimated over  the forecast horizon  
(Chart  1.4). 
The Committee revise s down the 
projection  of the Dubai crude price  throughout the 
forecast horizon. The oil price  is expected to 
average at 37.3 U .S. dollar s per barrel  in 2016 , 
lower than the previous estimate  of 43.0 dollar s 
per barrel. This  downward  revision  is due to  the 
more -than-expected decline in prices  in the first 
quarter of 2016 because of  concerns about  
elevate d excess supply  and warmer -than-usual 
weather in the U .S. and Europe  that lower ed 
demand for heating energy. Going forward, crude 
oil prices are projected  to gradually increase on 
account of  the reduction in  supplies from Non -
OPEC producers, especia lly from shale oil 
produc ers whose  investment  in exploration and 
production  has been put on hold or cancel ed.   
Implications for the global economy  
Subdued crude oil prices should help 
support global recovery to some degree  through  
lower production  costs. However, the decline in oil 
prices negatively affected the recovery of oil -
producing countries because of  export revenue  
shortfalls  and delayed investment spending by  
energy companies. Thus, the benefits to the global 
recovery from subdued crude prices are limit ed to 
some extent . 
Implications for the Thai economy  
Crude prices are expected to increase 
more gradually  than previously  expected, leading 
Chart 1.4  Assumptions on Dubai oil price
Dec 15         Mar 16U.S. dollars per barrelMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   10 to a downward revision of domestic retail oil prices 
and headline inflation. Nevertheless, the 
Commi ttee projects  headline inflation to turn 
positive in the first half of 2016 following the  
waning  of the base  effect . In addition, subdued 
crude prices weigh on prices of Thai exports and 
agricultural products  that are related to  commodity 
prices.  This further affects business  revenues  and 
farm incomes . Although  the decline in  crude prices 
helps reduce production costs of businesses and 
support s spending power of households through  
lower costs of living , it does not  fully offset the 
reduction in  export revenues and farm incomes . 
The Committee judges  the balance of risks 
to crude oil prices to be balanced . Downside 
risks  are as follows. First,  global oil demand may 
be lower than expected given a  delayed  global 
recovery . Second,  despite lower crude prices, 
shale oil supplies may fall at a slower rate than 
anticipated. Third,  OPEC  producers  may increase 
crude supplies more than the baseline projection  
in order to  maintain their market shares. On the 
other hand, upside risks  are as follows. First, 
OPEC producers and Russia may successfully 
cooperate to limit crude production . Second,  the 
Middle East c onflict s may spread to major oil 
production locations.  
Risks to Growth and Inflation Forecasts  
 The Committee continues to judge 
risks to growth to be skewed  to the downside  
but have become  more balanced than 
previously  assessed , as reflected in  the 
growth fan chart  that is less skewed 
throughout  the forecast horizon  (Chart  1.5). 
Downside risks  to growth are as follows. First, 
the slowdown in Chinese and Asian economies 
may weigh on advanced economies more than the 
baseline assessment . Second,  structural problems 
-2-101234
-2-101234
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017                                          
                                            
        :                Fan Chart)                                                                        
2557 255  255  2560
-404812
-404812
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017Chart 1.5 GDP growth forecast
Annual percentage change
Note: Fan chart covers 90 percent of probability distributionQ1 Q1                    Q1                    Q1 
2014                 2015                 2016                 2017
Chart 1.6 Headline inflation forecast
Annual percentage change
Note: Fan chart covers 90 percent of probability distribution-4-20246
-4-20246
Headline inflation target ( 2.5 +1.5)
Q1                     Q1                    Q1                    Q1
2014                  2015                 2016                 2017 Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   11 may cause  Thai exports  to benefit less from 
trading partner’s economic recovery  than 
anticipated  in the baseline . On the contrary, the 
upside risks  are as follows. First,  fiscal 
expenditure, especially investment spending, may  
be executed  sooner and greater than expected  in 
the baseline. Second, the number of tourists may 
be greater than the baseline assessment . Finally, 
the Committee judges  the balance of risks for 
both headline and core inflation to be tilted to 
the downside in line with the balance of  risks 
to growth  (Chart 1.6 and 1.7) . 
1.2 Monetary policy decision   
Monetary policy remain s accommodative 
in order to facilitate economic recovery in the face 
of more adverse  risks, especially external risks , 
during the first quarter of 2016. Meanwhile, 
inflationary pressures have declined  following 
decreases  in global oil prices. Given the high level 
of uncertainty in connection to the global 
economy, t he Committee sees  the need to 
preserve policy space. In addition, risks to 
financial stability from the search  for yield 
behavior, of which signs are increasingly 
observed, continue to warrant close monitoring.  
Nevertheless, monetary policy divergence 
among advanced economies has caused the baht to 
strengthen during some recent periods, which might 
not be as conducive to the economic recovery as it 
could be. The Committee will thus mo nitor the 
situation  closely , continue to  maintain the 
accommodative policy stance to support Thailand’s 
economic recovery , and stand ready to utilize an 
appropriate mix of available policy tools , together 
-2-101234
-2-101234
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017Chart 1.7 Core inflation forecast
Annual percentage change
Note: Fan chart covers 90 percent of probability distributionQ1                     Q1                      Q1                      Q1
2014                  2015                   2016                   2017 Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   12 with being mindful of  imbalances which may build 
up in a prolonged low interest environment.  
 At the MPC meeting  on February 3,  2016  
the Committee voted unanimously to maintain the 
policy rate at  .   percent. Under the Committee’s 
assessment, the economic and inflation outlook 
did not change sign ificantly from assessment in 
the previous meeting. The Thai economy and 
inflation were  expected to gradually recover, albeit  
with increasing downside risks to growth  that were 
largely a ttributable to external factors , in particular 
the global economic slowdown and subdued 
commodity prices. The Committee noted  that 
monetary policy  remained accommodative , as 
reflected in a negative real policy rate6/ and the  
low financing costs of businesses relative to the 
past average level , which sh ould be  conducive to 
fostering economic recovery and returning  inflation 
gradually to the target .  
Some members of the Committee 
expressed a view  that further monetary policy 
easing could only marginally improve the 
economic and inflation outlook . The levels of  
interest rate s were  deemed  not a factor that held 
up business operation s or household consumption  
under  the current policy stance that was already 
accommodative. In addition, s ome members were 
concerned about t he appreciation of the Nominal 
Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) that might not be 
as conducive to Thailand’s economic recovery as 
it had been in the past. Consequently, the 
                                                        
6/ The r eal interest rate is calculated by subtracting one -
year-ahead inflation  expectations , assumed to equal the 
one-year-ahead forecast of  headline inflation ( about 2.3 
percent according to  Chart  1.6), from the policy  interest 
rate (1.5 percent  as of the first quarter of 2016). The real 
interest rate is  thus approximately -0.8 percent  in the f irst 
quarter of 2016.  Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   13 Committee would pay close attention to global 
economic and financial development s, particularly  
monetary policy divergence among advanced 
economies.  
The MPC concurred that monetary policy 
at this juncture should be attentive to  risks to 
financial stability, in particular the search  for yield 
behavior, of which signs could  be increasingly 
observed in the prolonged low interest rate 
environment. The Committee also saw the need to 
preserve policy space for future use, as there 
remained a high degree of uncertainty  especially 
in the external front, for instance  China’s 
economic and financial developments , from which  
adverse  spillovers could affect Thailand’s 
economic recovery more than anticipated . 
At the meeting on March 23,  2016  the 
Committee projected the economy to grow at a 
lower rate than previously anticipated. The 
downward revision was partly  on account of 
weaker private consumption  due to  the dissipation 
of the  temporary boost s from the tax deduction  
measure at the end of last year and the 
accelerated automobile  purchases prior to the 
vehicle excise tax  hike. Furthermore, the value of 
merchandise exports still contracted significantly 
and looked to rebound only slowly as a result of 
major trading partners’ economic slowdown, a 
decline in Th ailand’s export competitiveness, and  
the shifts in the global trade structure  that led  
advanced eco nomies to import less. Meanwhile, 
inflation pressure s remained low , as reflected in 
headline inflation  remaining negative and core 
inflation, with the impact s of the increases in the 
excise tax es on tobacco products and automobiles  
excluded , edging lower in line  with weakening 
price pressure s from the demand side. Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   14 Accordingly, the Committee deemed risks to 
inflation skewed to the downside.  
Nevertheless, with monetary policy still 
being accommodative, the MPC  concurred that it  
should  preserve policy space for future need  and 
that at the current juncture the policy rate might 
not be the most effective tool to boost the 
economy. Under these circumstances, the 
Committee voted unanimously to leave the policy 
rate unchanged at 1.50 percent at this meeting. 
Meanwh ile, some members were concerned about  
the impact of  monetary policy divergence on the 
extent of the baht appreciation  that was relatively 
more than  most regional currencies during some 
recent periods , which  might not be as conducive 
to the economic recovery as it could be. The 
Committee would therefore monitor global 
economic and financial market developments  
closely . 
The Committee assessed overall financial 
stability risks to be increasing  somewhat on 
accoun t of the search  for yield behavior, together 
with a deterioration in  household income and 
commercial banks’ asset quality  due to the 
delayed economic recovery . In this  prolonged low 
interest rate environment, the Committee would 
also monitor signs of under pricing of risks by 
investors and financial institutions  that could lead 
to a buildup of vulnerability in the Thai financial 
system.  
Looking ahead, the Committee concurred 
that monetary policy should continue to remain 
sufficiently accommodative. The Committee would 
stand ready to utilize an appropriate mix of 
available policy tools in order to support the 
economic recovery, bring inflation rate back to the 
target within a reasonable time period, and ensure 
financial stability.  Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   15 1.3 Appendix:  Tables fo r supporting assumptions and forecasts  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   16  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   17  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   18  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  Impacts of cyclical and structural factors  
on the demand for Thai exports  
The fact that export volumes of Asian countries and Thailand experienced a 
contraction in 2015, despite  global trade volumes and the trading partners’ economies still 
expand ing albeit at a slowing rate , points to significant adverse effects  of structural factors  on 
exports of many Asian countries including Thailand . Looking ahead, exports of Asian 
countries, including Thailand , may not record  high growth rate s as in the past  despite a 
recovery in advanced economies . 
The contraction in exports is witnessed  in several Asian economies. This is not only 
due to  a cyclical slowdown in China and a slower -than-expected recovery of major economies  
(Chart 1)  but also  due to  structural factors. The impact of structural factors on exports is 
estimated to be  increasingly  pronounced  and appears to weigh on exports more than cyclical 
factor s do recently . This is reflected in a fall in export volumes of Asian countries in 2015  
despite expansion in global trade volumes, particularly in North America and Europe  
(Chart 2).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decline  in regional trade volumes 
can be attributed to the following factors.  
1) Change s in the global trade structure . 
Trading activities among Asian countries  have 
become interconnected  over the past decade . 
Several Asian countries are parts of the global 
value chain, where by China imports intermediate 
goods from its regional trading partners for 
assembling and then exports  as final products —
in particular, electronics . However, China’s 
ongoing economic reform  affects  the global valu e 
6.5
5.7
2.4
1.7
1.26.3
5.6
2.5
1.7
0.62016 (Jan 2016 )
2017 (Jan 2016 ) 6.4
5.6
2.1
1.5
0.76.2
5.6
2.4
1.6
0.601234567
China
(15.7%)Asia 
(Exclude 
China)
(37.4%) U.S.
(14.9%)Euro Country
(10%)Japan
(13.6%)2016 (Mar 2016 )
2017 (Mar 2016 )Growth  (annual change, %)Chart 1 Growth assumptions for 
Thailand’s trading partners
Note: Shares in total Thai exports are shown in brackets
Source: Consensus Forecast
Chart 2Trade volume by region
Index ( 2010 Q1=100)
90110130150
                        
Source: CPB  Netherlands Bureau for Economic 
Policy Analysis
051015202530354045
                                Percent
Sources: Oxford Economics and CEICU.S.JapanChinaEuropeChart 3 Shares of imports to GDP20  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  chain in two ways . First,  the reform aims at substituting  exports and investment with domestic 
consumption and services  as the growth engine . Second,  China focus es on moving up the 
value chain  and therefore effectively shorten s the Asian  supply chain . Both factors result  in 
China importing less , part icularly raw materials and intermediate goods , as reflected in a 
share of China’s imports to GDP that starts to show  a downward trend (Chart 3) . 
 Moreover, the recent recovery of advanced econ omies appears to have benefited 
Asian exports less than in the past , as t he U .S. and Europe have increasingly enga ged in 
more intra regional trade1 (Charts 4 and 5) . Given that Asia gradually loses  cost 
competitiveness , multinational corporations start to shift their production base s back home  or 
to countries which  have relatively cheaper labor  costs such as Mexico and Eastern European 
countries.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) A shift in consumer preference s from 
computer s to smart  phones and tablets  leads 
to a continuing rise in e xports of smartphones  
and related electronic parts, while exports  of 
computers and computer parts remain flat 
(Chart 6) . The impact of this  change in 
preferences is not uniform across Asian 
countries . Manufacturers  of computers and 
hard disk drive s, as well as those in the sup ply 
chain , such as Thailand, are more adversely  
affected . In contrast, smartphone and tablet 
produce rs and those in the supply chain, such 
as Kor ea, Taiwan, and Vietnam, have 
benefit ed from this change in consumer 
                                                           
1/ The importance of the global value chain in international trade has declined somewhat, as China advances its 
production technology, obviating the need to import from Asia, and as the U.S. and the European Union 
increasingly depend on reg ional value chains, making Asia not fully benefit from the economic recovery of 
advanced economies.  
9095100105110
                Total trade of 28 European countries
Intraregional trade
Interregional tradeIndex (seasonally adjusted)
(2012 Q1=100)
Source: UNCTADChart 4 Europe’s intraregional trade 
and interregional trade
90100110120130
Jan 13Jul 13Jan 14Jul 14Jan 15Jul 15China
 Mexico Thailand
Source: CEICIndex (seasonally adjusted)
(January 2013 =100)Chart 5 Non-energy imports by 
U.S. from selected countries
02004006008001,0001,2001,4001,6001,800
                            Computers and parts
Elect rical appliancesOther electronics productsChart 6 Global electronics exports
Billion US$
Note: Smartphones and tablets are in “Other electronics products ”’ 
category
Source: Trademap ; calculation by Bank of Thailand21  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  preferences , as reflected in strong growth  
in their electronics exports.  
3) Intra-Asia trade has been 
trending down  due either to slower 
domestic  growth or to structural limitations.  
First,  the loss of  competitiveness to China  
has caused  intraregional trade in Asia to 
slow down . Over the years, China  has 
successfully shifted from assembling parts 
for multinationals in the U .S. or Korea to 
establishing its own brand s, which offer 
similar quality but at lower prices. As a 
result, China’s  market share for high -tech 
products  has been rising con stantly , while 
those  of other countries, such as Taiwan 
and Korea, have been  on a downward trend  (Chart 7) , especially in the category of high -tech 
products  such as  smartphones . Second, a ging population has become more critical in several 
Asian economies . This results in  a shrinking labor force and  therefore  a lower growth  
momentum contributed by  labor . In addition, aging population increases  the likelihood  of the 
middle income trap, especially if the economy fails to have  a new growth driver or attract 
foreign investment as previously . In sum, t hese structural limitations have  adversely affected 
intraregional trade in Asia . 
Thailand has its own set of domestic structural challenges  on top of the above global 
and regional structural changes . In particular, the loss of export  competitiveness is reflected  in 
export contraction f or three consecutive years  (Chart 8) , and the problem become s 
increasingly pronounced. Thailand’s  structural challe nges can be summarized  as follows.  
1) Due to a persistent lack of both 
public an d private investment , Thailand has 
not been able to secure technological 
advancement needed  for keeping up with 
change s in consumer preferences . Priva te 
investment, for instance, has been 
subdued due to labor shortage, both in 
terms of quantity and quality. Moreover, a 
quite rapid rise in the minimum wage s has 
made Thailand relatively less attractive as 
a destination for foreign investment  
compared with its regional peers. As a 
result, the level of foreign investment in 
Thailand’s manufacturing industries  has 
been trending downward. At the same time  
Thailand’s direct investment abroad has 
constantly been on the rise.  Furthermore, 
research and development  (R&D) has received limited attention  in Thailand , as reflected in  (1) 
the share of R&D expenses to GDP, (2) R&D expenses per capita, and (3) the number of 
personnel engaged in R&D activities. Based on  these  indicators , Thailand’ s R&D performance 
is quite low compared with regional counterparts. On top of that, prolonged political instability 
05101520253035
0123456789
                            Hongkong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
Philippines Thailand China (RHS)Chart 7 Market shares of high -tech products
percent Percent
Note: High-tech products consist of communication devices, electrical appliances, 
photographic and cinematographic instruments, and optical appliances.
Source: Trademap
80120160200
90100110120130140150
                        Total world imports
GDP of Thailand's trading partners
Thailand's export volume (RHS)
Source: Thailand’s Customs Department, Ministry of Commerce, 
Bank of Thailand, and CPB Netherlands Bureau for Economic 
Policy AnalysisChart 8 Global trade volume 
and Thailand’s trading partners’ GDP
Index (seasonally adjusted) 
(2005 = 100)Index (seasonally adjusted) 
(2005 = 100)22  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  and limitations in fiscal disbursement  have delayed infrastructure investment.  Without the 
necessary adjustments on these fronts, the export sector will not be able to  resume its role as 
Thailand’s  key growth driver as in the past.  
2) The termination of special trade agreements  further contributes to a loss of export  
competitiveness . From 2015 onward , all exports items from Thailand are no longer qualifie d 
for the Generalized Scheme of Preferences (GSP) from the European Union , which is among 
Thailand’s top trading partners, with a share of   .  percent  of total Thai exports in 2015. As a 
result, exports to the European Union dropped by as much as 6  percen t, particularly textiles 
and apparels, processed food, and fisheries.  Going forward, the competitiveness of Thai 
exports could face further challenges, as Thailand’s  Free Trade Agreement (FTA) 
negotiations have seen limited progress  compared with other cou ntries in ASEAN such as 
Vietnam, Malaysia, and Singapore. In the absence of tax incentives from such FTA s, there is 
little to help offset the adverse impacts of the GSP termination. Moreover, Thailand might 
become less attractive as a foreign investment destination  compared with neighboring 
countries that have signed the Trans -Pacific Strategic Economic Partnership Agreement 
(TPP).  
Although the change in the global 
trade structure is beyond Thailand’s  control, 
it is possible  for Thai businesses to adapt to 
the new landscape. For instance, thanks to a 
growing number of Chinese tourists  in 
Thailand, Chinese people have become 
more familiar with Thai products . In 
particular, Thai consumer products meet the 
quality standards and are widely accepted 
by the  Chinese. Products like f ruits, food, 
beverages, jewelries an d accessories, and 
furniture have therefore seen steady 
increase in exports to China  (Chart 9) . 
(Exports of raw materials and intermediate 
goods such as rubber, rubber -related 
products, petrochemicals, and chemicals  in 
contrast have been trending down,  as China replaces its imported components in heavy 
industries with domestic production. ) However, the exports of the consumer products  to China 
that perform well  account for only 5.6  percen t of Thailand’s total exports to China. Going 
forward, both the public and the private sector s should therefore attempt to promot e exports 
of these  products, with particular foc us on adding value to existing products and maintaining 
their quality.  
Regarding domestic structural limitations, both the public and the private sector s are 
aware of the issues and are in the process of implementing measures  to raise the country’s 
competitiveness  as follows.  
 Identify industries which have the potential to become a new growth engine.  
First, the government has already set a target for investment incentives for five industries  
which have the potential to boost growth in the short to medium term  (First S -curve) . This 
involves expanding their existing capability  into more sophisticated technology , such as next -
generation cars, smart electronics, medical tourism, agriculture and biotechnology, and food 
0100200300400500600700
Jan 11Jul-11Jan-12Jul-12Jan-13Jul-13Jan-14Jul-14Jan-15Jul-15Jan-16Fruits, food, and beverages ( 1.3)
Jewelries and accessories ( 2.7)
Furniture ( 1.6)12-month moving average index (January 2011 =100)Chart 9 Selected merchandise exports to China 
Source: Thailand’s Customs Department, and Bank of ThailandNote: Shares in total Thai exports to China are shown in brackets23  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  processing.  Simultaneously, another five industries will be promoted  to serve as a longer -term 
growth engine  (New S-curve ), namely  robotics for industry, aviation and logistics, biofuels and 
biochemical, digital , and medical sectors. Moreover, funds have already been established to 
help promote competitiveness of these industries.  
 Promote research, technological advancement, and innovation  that can also be 
applied for commercial use . In this regard, the government has se t key milestones for the 
R&D target, namely 1 percent  of GDP by 2016 and 2  percent  of GDP by 2021, up from  only 
0.47 percent  in 2013. Moreover, th e government aims to raise t he contribution of the private 
sector to national R&D expenses , from 47  percent  in 2013 to 70 percent , and has introduced 
a number of measures to help gear its stakeholder toward the target. For instance, the tax 
deductible amount for R&D and inno vation -related expenses ar e raised from 200 percent  of 
the amount spent to 300  percent . Moreover, the Talent Mobility Program will supply the 
private sector with researchers from the pu blic sector  in order to ensur e the commercial 
application of research.  The Export -Import Bank of Thailand will also supply low -interest 
loans, while its counterpart, the National Science and Technology Development Agency , 
offers research grants for entrepreneurs.  
 Accelerate p rogress  on trade agreement negotiation.  The government has 
already assigned this task to relevant depa rtments, particularly on the issue of TPP 
membership. The final decision, however, is likely to be reached after thorough cost -benefit 
analysis has been undertak en. Given the time -consuming natu re of th e process, Thai 
exporters will have to wait for some time before receiving the tax preferences.  
Based on slower -than-expected growth of trading partners’ economies, more 
pronounced structural problems  both at home and abroad, and the fact that the reform of 
Thailand’s export sector is likely to take some time to materialize, the forecast of Thai exports 
in 2016  is thus revised down , with the likelihood that exports will contract for four consecutive 
years. Such contraction, however, is also seen in several Asian economies experiencing  
structural problems. For 2017, it is expected that exports growth will turn positive  albeit at a 
low rate. This is because  while  export prices should pick up in line with a gradual increase in 
global commodity prices , the volume  of exports is expected to  continue shrink ing as a result 
of the above  structural problems.  
While the export  sector is undergoing reform, which might lead to the economy 
operating below potential in the short run, the government should focus its limited resources 
on strengthening growth momentum by investing to upgrade production efficiency and 
increase the country’s competitiveness. This can be do ne by investing more in high value -
added or innovative products, and promoting more concrete investment plans for the New S -
curve industries. As a pilot project, the industries which have made the most progress should 
be selected in order to secure confide nce of investors. Such investment should enhance  the 
country’s competitiveness in a sustainable manner  compared with  the consumption  stimulus  
measures that result in only temporary boosts to the economy.  Recent Economic DevelopmentsMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              24 
 2. Recent Economic Developments  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.1 The global economy   
 With regard  to  advanced economies, the 
drag from the slowdown in  emerging market 
economies turned out greater than previously 
assessed owing to a decline  in export activities  
(Chart 2.1 and 2.2 ). However, domestic demand 
continued to be a main driver to support  economic 
recovery  going forward .  
 The U .S. economy continued to 
expan d, albeit at a slower pace  at 1 percent  The global  economy  continued  to show  signs  of recovery.  Nevertheless,  forward  
growth  momentum  was likely  to moderate  for both advanced  and Asian economies.  For 
advanced  economies,  the impacts  from the slowdown  in emerging  market  economies  turned  
out greater  than previously  assessed  primarily  because  of a drag in exports . However,  
domestic  demand  continued  to be a main  driver  sustaining  economic  recovery  going  forward.  
For Asian  economies,  headwinds  to growth  came  from both cyclical  and structural  problems . 
Cyclical  problems  were  related  to a delayed  global  recovery .  Structural  problems , which  were  
attributable  to a changing  global  trade  structure  and domestic  structural  constraints,  weighed  
on growth  more  than previously  anticipated.  
The Thai economy  showed  signs  of weakening  in various  sectors  more  evidently.  The 
repercussion s of the contraction  in exports  on overall  economic  activities  were  increasing.  
Private  consumption  slowed  down  after the effects  of temporary  boosts  started  to wane . 
Private  investment , especially  in the manufacturing  sector,  remained  subdued,  despite  
improvements  seen  in some  services  sectors  such  as telecommunications.  Nonetheless , 
public  investment  and tourism  continued  to play a crucial  role in sustaining  the economy.  
Disbursement  of government  funds  was on course , and there were  indications  of a rebound  in 
the number  of tourists  from increasingly  more  countries,  which  would  provide  further  support  to 
the expansion  in tourism -related  services  industries.  
Regarding  costs and price s, headline  inflation  remained  negative  given  that global  oil 
prices  were  still at low levels.  Core inflation  edged  down  on account  of weaker  domestic  
demand  and subdued  cost pressures.  
Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis, Eurostat, Cabinet Office of Japan 
-1.0-0.50.00.51.01.5
-4-20246
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
U.S. Euro area Japan Private consumption  Private investment
 Public expenditure  Net exports
 Inventory  GDP, annualized
GDP (RHS)Chart 2.1  Sources of GDP growth of G 3 economies
(percent change from same quarter last year)
Percent
(annualized, seasonally adjusted)Percent
(seasonally adjusted) (RHS)Monetary Policy Report  March 2016              25 (qoq saar)  in the fourth quarter of  2015,1/ down 
from 2.0  percent  in the previous quarter . Three 
factors contributed to the slowdown were  (1) a 
significant  moderation in investment  following the 
contraction in investment in the energy sector  that 
were adversely  affected by persistently low oil 
prices ; (2) a continued decline in  inventories from 
elevated levels in the first half of the year ; and  (3) 
shrinking net exports due to weakening demand 
from abroad  in combination with  a stronger U .S. 
dollar.  
Nonetheless, recent economic data 
indicated a continued recovery, driven primarily by 
domestic demand. In particular, private 
consumption was underpinned by rising incomes 
and continuing improvement in the labor  market, 
as reflected in the improvement in retail sales. 
However, the speed of the U .S. recovery would  
likely be more sluggish  than previously expected 
on the back of the slowdown in the  global 
economy, espec ially emerging market s, which 
continued to weigh on  U.S. exports. Given 
weakening exports and heightened volatility in the 
U.S. financial markets, the pace of the federal 
funds rate increases would  likely be to more 
gradual  than assessed  in the previous  Monetary 
Policy Report . 
The euro area economies2/ grew by 0.3 
percent  (qoq sa)  in the fourth quarter of  2015, a 
rate unchanged from the  previous quarter.  
Growth was primarily supported by continued 
                                                        
1/ Economic data reported in this Monetary Policy Report  
were  based on the official data which ha d been 
released up to  March 22, 2016 , the day before the 
March MPC meeting. The figure for the  fourth quarter  
U.S. GDP growth  reported above was the second 
estimate.  
2/ Comprising 19 countries using the single currency    
-15-10-505101520253035
2010 2012 2014 2010 2012 2014 2010 2012 2014Emerging Market Asia Emerging Market Europe
Emerging Market Latin America Other Emerging Markets
Advanced Economies TotalSource: TrademapChart   2 G3 exports classified by destination
Percent (annual growth)
U.S. Euro Are a JapanMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              26 
 expansion in domestic demand , in particular private 
investment and public consumption . In contrast, 
private consumption moderated  due to  a dent in  
consumer confiden ce, in part because of  the Paris 
terror attack in November 2015.  Furthermore, 
latest data pointed to increased tightening in 
financial conditions  following  the recent European 
financial market volatility . Although t his would 
further weigh  on private consumption, both 
subdued oil prices and gains in employment could 
somewhat offset the negative impacts. Meanwhile, 
weak exports remained a drag on growth.  
Going forward, despite the supports from  
an improving labor  market, low oil prices , and 
accommodative  monetary policy, a few adverse 
risks were present. One risk would be related to 
banking sector fragility, especially in the periphery 
with elevated  nonper forming loans and financial 
sector links to emerging market s and oil industries. 
The other risk would be related to  the negative 
interest rate policy adopted by the European 
Central Bank that could adversely affect profitability 
of commercial banks. These negative risk factors 
could  create  greater  financial market  volatility and 
tightening financial conditions  that would partly 
restrain  the support from monetary policy 
accommodation. Furthermore,  uncertainties  in 
connection with  geopolitical risks and prolonged  
political  tensions could disrupt  the recovery of the 
euro area and  the global  economy. The Committee 
therefore would  closely  monitor these risks  which 
could have implications for the conduct of monetary 
policy in Thailand  going forward.  
The Japanese economy contracted by 
0.3 percent  (qoq sa) in the fourth quarter of  
2015, down from a 0.3 percent growth ra te 
registered  in the previous quarter  due to a 
sharp drop in  private consumption . The Monetary Policy Report  March 2016              27 contraction in consumer spending  was partly 
attributable  to (1) temporary factors such  as 
warmer -than-usual weather  that caused  a fall in 
winter clothing sales and energy  consumption  and 
(2) the elevated level of consumption in the 
previous quarter. Preliminary data for the first 
quarter of  2016 indicated a decline in consumer 
confidence and retail sales, which reflected  
adverse effects  from volatility in the global 
financ ial market and declines in the prices of 
financial  asset s. Incidentally, private investment 
continued to expand in the fourth quarter.  
Going forward, the Japanese economy 
would  likely recover gradually, supported by a 
healthy  labor  market, household incomes,  and 
strong  corporate profits. However , notable risks to 
Japan  were considered to be (1) a slowdown in 
external demand that could restrain  exports  and 
(2) a more -than-expected prolong of global 
financial market volatility  that could hurt domestic 
demand through  a decline in  confidence.  
The Chinese economy moderated on 
account of  shrinking exports and weakened  
private consu mption  and also a slowdown in  
activities in the financial sector after the recent  
volatility. Consequently, t he Chinese authority  
rolled out  further stimulus measures to support the 
economy.  
 The Chinese  economy  expanded  at a 
rate of 6.8 percent  (yoy)  in the fourth  quarter  of 
2015 , slightly  down  from  6.9 percent  in the 
previous  quarter  on account  of the moderation  in 
the service s industries  that was attributed  to the 
slowdown  in financial  sector  activities . 
Nonetheless,  latest  indicators  pointed  to a further  
moderation  in the economy  (Chart  2.3) due to 
weakening  consumption  and shrinking  exports , 
despite  investment  that expand ed slightly  thanks  
Chart 2.3  China’s economic indicators
(percent change from same month last year)
Source: CEIC
PercentMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              28 
 to monetary  policy  accommodation , real estate  
stimulus  measure s, and public  investment . 
Meanwhile , manufacturing  production  would  likely  
moderate  because  of falling  external  and domestic  
demand  and policies  to reduce  excess  capacity  
despit e the continued  expansion  in service s 
industries . 
  Given  the prospect  of an economic  
slowdown  and liquidity  tightening,  the Chinese  
administration  continued  to announce  stimulus  
measures  to sustain  the economy  to achieve  this 
year’s  growth  target  of 6.5-7.0 percent . These  
measures  included  an increase  in the frequency  of 
open  market  operations , a cut in the reserve  
requirement  ratio, and real estate  stimulus  
measures,  namely  an easing  of mortgage  down  
payment  requirements  and a reduction  in 
transaction  taxes  for some  home  buyers.  
 Asian economies were adversely affected  
by both cyclical factor s that delayed the global 
recovery and structural factor s, namely a change 
in the global trade structure and domestic 
structural constraints , that weighed on  economic 
growth  more than previously expected . 
 Several  Asian economies (excluding 
China and Japan ) grew at a slower pace (Chart 
2.4) due primarily to weakening domestic demand  
and greater contraction in exports (Chart 2.5 ). 
Exports of Asian economies were increasingly  
affected not only  by the global economic 
slowdown , attributed especially to  emerging 
market economies , but also by  structural 
challenges  related to  both country -specific 
constraints  and slower trade because of a change 
in the global trade structure . 
 Weakening exports adversely affected 
domestic demand  in most Asian countries,  as 
reflected in lower employment and incomes. 
2.4
2.9
2.2
1.9
4.0
0.6
-0.8
-0.5
2.5
2.2
2.7
3.0
5.6
4.9
4.7
4.5
2.7
1.7
1.8
1.8
4.7
4.7
4.7
5.0
5.0
5.8
6.1
6.3
3.0
2.7
2.9
2.8
-238
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Phillipines ThailandPercentChart 2.4  GDP growth of Asian economies
(change from same quarter last year)
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              29 Latest data indicated that Asian economies would  
continue to  slow as reflected in the Purchasing 
Manager s Index (PMI) and its  new export orders 
component  of many countries  remaining  below 50.  
  Going forward, Asian economies 
(excluding China and Japan) would  likely grow at 
a slower pace  because of  the softening in exports 
and domestic demand  and because of domestic 
structural constraints such as heavy dependence 
on commodity exports, labor  market problems,  
and population aging . 
2.2 The domestic economy  
Economic  momentum  showed  visible  
signs  of losing  steam  in several  sectors , as export  
contraction  started  to increasingly  impac t the real 
economy  while  the positive  effects  from temporary  
factors  started  to wane.  However,  public  
investment  and tourism  remained  key drivers  in 
sustaining  economic  momentum  (Chart  2.6). 
Exports conti nued to contract in both quantity and 
value  terms  as cyclical and structural challenges 
increasingly weighed on  Thai exports . 
 Adverse c yclical factors in the global 
economy led to  greater negative impacts on 
exports of several countries, including Thai 
exports.  Especially after the effects of temporary 
economic boost s began to fade, t hese negative 
impacts became  more evident, as reflected in a 
slowdown in  exports of some product categories , 
such as automobiles and electronic parts for new 
mobile phones and tablets  which had  previously 
accelerated  following  product launches. Overall , 
Thai exports  to most destinations declined, except 
to Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and Vietnam 
Chart 2.5 Contribution to Asia exports 
classified by destination
Source: CEICPercent (annual growth)
Note: Asia includes Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Malaysia, Singapore,
the Philippines, and Thailand
-1.00.01.02.03.04.0
Q1 2014 Q3 2014 Q1 2015 Q3 2015seasonally adjusted, percent change from last quarter
percent change from same period last yearChart 2.6  GDP growth1/
(seasonally adjusted, percent change from last quarter)
Note: 1/Calculation based on chain volume measure (CVM)
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development BoardPercentMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              30 
 (CLMV ) which continued to expand  (Chart 2.7).  In 
addition to  affecting the volume o f exports , the 
global economic slowdown continued to weigh on 
oil and other commodity prices. As a result, prices 
of exports associated with  oil and commodities , for 
example,  petroleum, petrochemicals, chemicals , 
and rubber and rubber products,  contracted 
sharply . 
Apart from  cyclical factors, structural 
problems increasi ngly weighed on Thai 
exports and would likely remain a drag for  the 
foreseeable future. Structural problems could  be 
classified into two categories as detailed below.  
 (1) Shifts in the global trade structure 
led to a decline in import s of goods and raw 
materials from abroad. First,  the Chinese 
administration’s emphasis on the importance of 
the domestic contents of exports in accordance 
with its economic reform policy increasing ly 
affected  other trading partners , especially ASEAN 
countries which were linked to China's production 
chain. Second,  intraregional trade in the European 
Union was on the  rise. Third, the U .S. now 
increasingly relied on imports from Mexico  instead 
of China and Asia. As a result , these shifts in  the 
global trade structure would  continue to weigh on  
Thai exports.  
(2) Domestic structural problems , such  
those related to  labor and manufacturing 
technolog y, continued to limit competitiveness in  
production and export s. Examples  include d 
technological limitations in the production of solid 
state drive s that were to replace  hard disk d rives, 
the latter of which faced a continuous decline in 
demand . Moreover, Thailand’s loss of the 
Generalized Scheme  of Preferences (GSP) 
privileges since  the beginning of 2015 would affect  
            
            
Jul
    Jan
    Jul
    Jan
    Jul
    Jan
    Asean -        Middle East (     Australia (     
G        China (  . ) (RHS) CLMV (  . ) (RHS)Chart 2.7 Thai exports by destination
Note: ( ) Export share in 2015
Sources: Customs Department and Bank of Thailand(3-month moving average   July 2013 = 100)
Index IndexMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              31 exports of clothing and process ed agriculture 
products to the European Union.  
The continuous contraction in  exports increasingly 
affect ed the real economy  as a whole . Moreover, 
with the effects of the temporary economic boost s 
started to  wane , growth momentum in many 
sectors , especially  consumption and private 
investment , became weaker .  
 Private consumption showed signs of 
moderation  after the effects of temporary 
economic boosts from stimulus measures 
started to fade. In addition, consumers remained 
cautious in spending because of  concerns about  
elevated household debt, together with subdued 
farm incomes that were  caused by l ow commodity 
prices and China’s economic slowdown  Going 
forward, low input costs from oil prices and 
improving consumer confidence (Chart 2.8)  would 
work to support consumption.  Furthermore, labor  
migration out of  the agricultur al sector, where  
income tended to be subdued, into higher -pay 
sectors  would partly support  growth of  private 
consumption  going forward , especially in  the 
necessit y goods  category  (Box: The Resilience of 
Private Consumption in Thailand ). 
Private investment , especially in the 
manufacturing sector,  remained subdued. A 
combination of shrinking exports, weak  domestic 
demand , and excess production capacity (Chart  
2.9) obviate d the need for  investment to expand 
production capacity . In addition,  foreign direct 
investment into Thailand’s  manufacturing sector 
tended  to fall relative to the past (Chart  2.10) , 
particular ly in businesses related to electrical 
appliance s, rubber , and plastic. Nevertheless, 
investment in services industries , especially 
those bene fiting from government  policies,  
improved to some extent . Examples included  (1) 
Note: Shares of survey responses are 76.2% being non -agricultural,
11.1% being agricultural, and 12.7% being unemployed/studying.
Source: Ministry of CommerceChart 2.8 Consumer Confidence Index
Index
 
Million USD
Source: Bank of ThailandChart 2.10 Foreign direct investment 
and Thai direct investment
-12-8-4048
All groups Exports < 30% Exports 30% -60% Exports > 60%Quarter 3 Quarter 4
Note: Difference between current capacity utilization and the average during 
2011 -2013 , excluding period with severe flooding (Oct 2011 –Jan 2012 )
Source : Calculations by Bank of ThailandChart     Capacity utilization in 2015
Percent
(Excess Capacity)Monetary Policy Report  March 2016              32 
 capital investment in telecommunications to 
support the operation of the  4G mobile network 
services at the beginning of 2016  and (2) 
alternative energy investment that was in line with 
government  policy  and was intended to support 
the increased energy need due to growing 
urbanization.   
Public spending and tourism remained key to 
sustain  economic momentum . 
Public spending, both current and investment 
expenditures,  continued to be an important 
driver of growth  (Chart 2.11 ). With the 
improvement in budget spending efficiency,  
disbursement  of outlays  for regular public 
investment  and for projects under  the 
government ’s phase -2 and phase -3 economic 
stimulus package s were quickly executed . 
Meanwhile , disbursement of loans for water 
resource management and road transportation 
projects progressed as scheduled. In addition , the 
government also issued  additional stimulus 
measures during year -end, including the  tax 
deducti on measure, whereby taxpayers were 
allowed to claim an income tax deduction by the 
amount spent on goods and services up to 15,000 
baht, that was aimed at  support ing consumer 
spending and bolster ing business confidence.  
Tourism  began to show signs of 
rebound , as reflected in the number of tourists 
from  various countries , and turned out to be  a 
major  driver  of related service s industries  such 
as the wholesale -retail  and transportation 
sectors . Tourism i ncome continued to improve 
primarily on the back of  the increase  in Chinese 
tourists . Despite  China’ s slo wdown  and yuan 
depreciation , expansion of low -cost airline routes to 
Thailand , together with  Thailand’s popularity as a 
travel destination , contributed to the surge in 
Chart 2.11 Public spending
Current expenditure excluding central government transfers
Investment expenditure excluding central government transfersBillion baht
Billio baht
Source: Bureau of Budget; Fiscal Policy OfficeMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              33 Chinese tourists. Moreover, the number of European 
tourists rebounded,  partly because of an expansion 
of low -cost airline routes to Thailand.  In addition, the 
number of tourists from commodity -exporting 
countries , such as Australia, Russia, Indonesia , and 
Malaysia, also ticked up,  although  these countries  
were affected by subdued commodity prices (Chart 
2.12) . Going forward, tourism was expected to 
expand solidly given cont inuing support from low  
transportation  expenses in line with oil prices  and 
from the increases  in the number of low -cost airline 
routes to Thailand.  
Service industries would  play a more significant 
role in the Thai economy going forward.  
 Service s industries grew strongly in all 
sectors  (Chart 2.13) due mainly to the 
improvement  in the tourism outlook and overall  
domestic demand  that continued to expand . 
Moreover , services industries associated with  the 
real estate  sector benefited  from the government’s 
stimulus measure s at the end of 2015 .3/ These 
measures helped increase  the number of 
transactions and  transfers  of residential units , in 
particular low-rise properties  that typically 
command ed higher prices than condominium s, 
and bolster ed confidence among property 
developers by reducing  some  oversupply in the 
market.  
                                                        
3/
The real estate stimulus m easures include d (1) income 
tax deduction for first -time home buyers effective from 
October 13, 2015; (2) loans  with a credit line of up to 3 
million baht provided by the  Government Housing Bank 
for low - and middle -income households effective from  
October  19, 2015 ; and (3) a reduction in transfer and 
registration  fees from 2  percent  and 1  percent, 
respectively,  to 0.01  percent  effective from October 29, 
2015 . 
4.14.58.118.0
3.7
2.29.722.1
4.13.16.712.7
5.56.6
5.3 5.0
0510152025
Trade Real estate Transporation and 
telecommunicationsHotels and 
restaurantsQ1 2015 Q2 2015 Q3 2015 Q4 2015Chart 2.13 Growth of services industries
Source : The National Economic and Social Development BoardPercent
80120160200240
5075100125150
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Europe (excluded Rusia)
Japan
Oil-exporting countriesChart 2.12 Index of foreign tourists  classified by nationality
 3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted;  January 2013      
Note: Oil-exporting countries are Australia, Russia, Indonesia, and Malaysia, 
which account for 20% of total foreign tourists
Source: Department of TourismIndex Index Monetary Policy Report  March 2016              34 
  Going forward,  service s industries would 
play a crucial  role in driving the economy , given 
that the manufacturing sector  was likely to 
moderate  following the slowdown in  exports. 
Moreover, investment in  service s industries was 
expected to  grow, which would  boost  total factor 
productivity in line with rising productivity in 
modern service s sectors , such as transportation, 
telecommunications , and financial intermediation , 
which  displayed largest gain s in productivity per 
person th an other sectors (Chart 2.14) . Service s 
industries  also played a part in absorbing labor  
migration out of  the agricult ural and manufacturing 
sectors, as tourism -related sectors continued to 
show strong growth and require d only minimal  
labor  skills (Chart 2.15) . Services industries would 
therefore be pivotal in supporting the economy at 
this current juncture and would  be a key driver 
propelling the  Thai economy in the future.  
2.3 Production cost and price conditions   
Headline inflation remained negative given 
that global oil prices were still  at low levels, while 
core inflation edged down on account of subdued 
cost pressures and weaker domestic demand. 
While t he Committee anticipated  a rise in headline 
inflation , which would depend  crucially  on future 
oil price development s, it would  monitor domestic 
demand recovery and inflation expectations 
closely going forward.  
Headline inflation remained negative  at the 
beginning of 2016 , with the average for the first 
two months being -0.52 percent . Consumer price 
inflation was still  restrained by  subdued domestic 
energy prices and global oil prices (Chart 2.16) . 
The low crude prices were attributed to  (1) an 
Chart      Labor productivity
Source: National Economic and Social Development Board; Bank of ThailandIndex (base year 2013      )
Chart 2.15 Number of employees classified by sector
Index ( 3-month moving average, January 2013 = 100)
Source: Bank of Thailand
Chart 2.16  Contribution to headline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce;
calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
2016 Q1:
Jan–FebMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              35 increase in  oil production by  the Organization of 
the Petroleum Exporting Countries  (OPEC ), in 
particular from Iran after the sanctions were lifted  
and (2)  the drop in oil demand  on the back of the 
slowdown of the global economy , in particular  
China. Nonetheless, headline inflation  was on 
course to become less negative  thanks to  the 
dissipation  of the base effect  and the  increases in  
fresh food prices , the latter of which were  due to 
drought in some parts of the country that caused 
prices of vegetables and fruits to edge higher . 
Core inflation for the first two mon ths of 
2016 averaged at 0.63 percent , slightly edging 
lower on the back of a weakening domestic 
econo my and subdued cost pressures. W hile an 
increase in  the excise taxes for tobacco products 
and automobiles  pushed up  inflation  somewhat, it 
failed to  fully offset the impacts of sluggish  
demand. Indicators of u nderlying inflation all 
showed steady downward trends  (Chart  2.17).4/  
Given the fall in energy prices in tandem 
with crude prices,  product ion costs of goods and 
services in the core consumer price basket also 
declined, as reflected  in the decreases  in prices of 
core consumer price goods  for which  oil was a 
                                                        
4/For the legend i n Chart 2.17 , the number in the brackets on 
the left is displayed in terms of %MoM (sa, 3mma) as of 
February 2016 , while the number  on the right is the long-
term average  over 2005 -2014 . Core inflation ex rent & 
government measures  excludes  (1) rent, which  display s 
high persistence , and (2) changes in prices  resulting 
from government measures and taxes.  Asymmetric trim  
excludes g oods and services with most volatile price 
changes , removing  from the distribution of price 
changes  the bottom 7 percentile and the top 5 
percentile, in order to obtain an  inflation trend. Principal 
component model  calculates changes in the common 
statistical factor  that drives  price movements across  
categories of  goods and services.  
-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2012Jul Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Core inflation ex rent & government measures  ( -0.03, 0.17)
Asymmetric trim ( -0.01, 0.25)
Principal component model ( -0.03, 0.12) Percent change from previous month
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
See footnote 4 for details of each indicator.Chart 2.17  Underlying inflation indicators
Sources: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce,
calculations by Bank of Thailand
Chart 2.18 Oil-related core inflation measure
Percent (yoy)
Note: Calculated using weights based on the information in the 2010 Input -
Output Table. See footnote 5 for details.
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce,
calculations by Bank of ThailandNonoil -related core inflation 
measure
Oil-related core inflation measureMonetary Policy Report  March 2016              36 
 production  input5/ (Chart  2.18). Meanwhile , 
subdued domestic demand also played a role in 
lowering the prices of goods for which oil was not 
an input . In addition, businesses  found it difficult  to 
raise prices, as reflected in the proportion of 
goods in the core consumer price  basket , whose  
prices had been raise d over the past two years , 
was on  a declining  trend (Chart  2.19). 
Although i nflation expectations edged 
up slightly in line with recent development s in 
global crude prices, they remained on a 
downward trend . One-year-ahead inflation 
expecta tions according to surveys of professional 
economists and businesses respectively stood at 
2.2 percent  and 1.95  percent  as of March 2016 . 
Meanwhile, medium -term inflation expectations 
remained near the inflation target d espite having 
edged down  somewhat  (Chart 2.20) . Looking 
ahead, the Committee would  continue to monitor 
the recovery of domestic demand and  
developments of  inflation expectations  closely . 
                                                        
5/ Two measures of core inflation, one measure with oil  
used as a direct  or indirect input for each item in the 
core CPI basket and the other  measure  consisting of 
goods unrelated to oil, are calculated by assigning 
weights based on the information in the 2010 Input -
Output Table.  
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Inflation expectations by firms ( 1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists ( 1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists ( 5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model ( 5-year ahead)Chart      Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Sources: Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand, Consensus 
Forecast, and calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
Chart 2.   Shares of items with different degrees of 
price adjustments in core CPI basket
Note: Calculated from %MoM change according to weight in core CPI basket
Source : Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
Monetary Policy Report  March 2016              37  
 
 
Table 2.1 Quarterly inflation
Unit : Percent 20142015 2016
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4Jan-Feb
 Percentage change from previous year (% ryoy)
-Headline Consumer Price Index 1.89 -    -    -    -0.86 -  52
Core Consumer Price Index 1.59            0.85 0.63
 Raw food 3.46    -        1.45 1.62
Energy 1.68-     -     -     -14.63-11.50
 Percent change from previous quarter (% rqoq_sa )
-Headline Consumer Price Index - -   -      0.1 -
Core Consumer Price Index -         0.2 -
 Raw food -   -         -
Energy - -   -   -   -   -
  Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce.
Calculations of percentage change from last quarter, seasonally adjusted, 
by Bank of Thailand38  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  The resilience of private consumption in Thailand  
The resilience of private consumption is a c ritical issue  in the assessment of  the 
economic outlook . This is  particularly relevant at  the current juncture , where exports are not 
able to act as the main gro wth driver  as in the past  due to  both cyclical and structural 
headwinds , and  private investment remained subdued.  Given such context , Thailand’s growth 
momentum therefore depend s critically on public and private consumption , as reflected  in 
their contribut ion to economic growth (Chart 1 ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In assessing the strength of private consum ption going forward, both negative  and 
positive factors driving consumption  are considered as follows . Private consumption wa s 
weighed down by several factors  last ye ar. First, merchandise exports contracted by 3.4  
percent  in 2015  from a year earlier due to  a slowdown in trading partners’ economies and 
structural limitations. This had a direct repercussion on production and employment in the 
export -oriented manufacturi ng sectors. Second, d rought and persistently low  farm prices 
weigh ed on farm incomes , which recorded a contraction of 11  percent in 2015 from a year 
earlier , and therefore weaken ed purchasing power of agricultural households. Third, the h igh 
level of  house hold debt as a share of  GDP continue d to be a  drag on consumption . The 
buildup of household debt  accelerated during the government’s first-car tax rebate scheme in 
2012, albeit decelerating since 2013  (Chart 2) . 
 Despite the above  negative factors, private  consumption still grew thanks to the 
following factors.  
1) Thailand’s l abor market is flexible . Although drought and depressed farm prices led 
to a fall in  employment in the agricultural sector  by 450,000 positions last yea r, a portion of 
those labor were  able to move into  the manufacturing and service s sectors , as reflected in an 
increase of  380,000 positions  in the nonagricultural sector. T he services sector  accounted for 
the majority of the increase (Chart 3) . The remainder is due to  the domesti c-orient ed 
manufacturing sector , while the export -oriented manufacturing sector  contributed  only 
marginally1. Within the service s sector, the tourist -related services continued to expand solidly 
thanks to a growing number of tourists  (Chart 4) . Apparently , Thailand’s labor market is 
flexible enough to absorb labor  movements out of  the affected sectors, namely the agr icultural 
                                                           
1/ Refers to industries which export at least 30  percent  of their total production.  
-10-50510
Q1
2013Q3
2013Q1
2014Q3
2014Q1
2015Q3
2015Private consumption
Net exports of goods and services
Private investment
Change in inventories, and residuals
Fiscal spending
GDP
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board,
calculated by the Bank of Thailand.PercentChart 1 Contribution to Thailand’s GDP growth
(Change from the same period last year)
05101520
405060708090
Q1
2008Q1
2009Q1
2010Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Household Debt to GDP Ratio
Growth of Household Debt (RHS)Chart 2 Household debt to GDP ratio
and growth of household debt
Source: Bank of ThailandPercent of GDP Percent (year -over-year change)39  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  sector and the export -oriented sector . Unemployment thus remained stable during those 
periods.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2) Average real income ha s incre ased . 
After the new daily minimum wage of 300 baht 
became effective on January 1,  2013, non farm 
income  in real terms  rose by an average of 1  .7 
percent  per year. Although this growth rate is 
considered low by historical standard s, it has 
helped shore up ov erall purchasing power  amid 
subdued farm income s (Chart 5) . 
3) A decline in  oil prices ha s partly 
sustained household purchasing power . With 
oil-related expenses accounting for 6  percent  
of household income  (Chart 6) , a fall in oil 
prices2 during 2013 -2015  by 27 percent led to a 
reduction in oil-related  expenses  by one  fifth (Chart 7) . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
2/ Proxied by gasohol 91 p rice.  
-500-400-300-200-1000100200300400500
        Services Manufacturing AgricultureThousands of people
Note: Total employment in 2015 is 38 million peopleChart 3 Changes in sectoral employment
Source: National Statistics Office, and calculated by the Bank of Thailand
Note: *denotes a share in total employment in the services sector in 2015
(14 million people)   
-   
-      
-      
- - - -                     
Tourism -related services
(27%)*    % *Trade sector Other services
   % *PercentChart 4 Employment growth in Thailand’s services sector
(Change from the same period last year)
Source: National Statistics Office, and calculated by the Bank of Thailand
Chart 5 Growth of real income in non -agricultural sectors 
 Change from the same period last year)
- - -            
    -      -      -      -      -      -  Non-agricultural Manufacturing
Services
MIN WAGEPercent
Source: National Statistics Office, and calculated by the Bank of Thailand
Chart   Shares of oil -related expenses in household income in 2013
 Percent of total disposable income 
Agricultural households    
Self-employed (non-agricultural) households    
Professionals    
Employees    
Retirees    
All households    
Source: Household Socio -Economic Survey
Chart 7 Energy -related expenses by occupation*
                                  
Note: * 1) Excluding LPG, NGV, and public transportation costs
 ) Average oil expenses in 2015 is calculated by the average petrol 
prices in 2015 , multiplied by the amount used by a representative 
household in each group, assuming that the consumption pattern 
remains unchanged across time.Baht/month
 Average oil expenses in 2013 
 Agricultural 
householdsProfessionals Self-employed 
(non-agricultural) 
householdsEmployees Retirees Average
(all households) Average oil expenses in 2015 
Source: Household Socio -Economic Survey 40  Monetary Policy Report  March 2016  4) Government measures and improv ed consumer confidence support ed last year’s  
consumption . During the last week of 2015, the government introduced a ta x deductio n 
scheme  applicable to  purchase s of goods and services up to  15,000 baht per person . This 
measure helped shore up confidence of both households and businesses  and buoyed private 
spending during year -end. Such stimulative effect on consumption, however, was expected to 
be temporary, as some purchases were brought forward from early 2016.  As a result, growth  
momentum of private consumption in January 2016 declined somewhat , as reflected in a 
lower reading of private consumption indicators, particularly in the  semi -durables category 
such as clothing and apparels. In the absence of the government’s measure  however  
spending on semi -durables goo ds would have still register ed an expansion. Moreover, private 
consumption growth during the last quarter of 2015 was p artly attributable  to the accelerated 
automobile  purchases prior to a hike in  vehicle excise tax effective  January 1, 2016.  
Looking forward, private consumption  should continue to receive support from the 
following factors. First, e mployment in the domesti c-oriented manufacturing sector should 
continue to expand . Second, e mployment in the service s sector, particularly in the tourist -
related services  industries , is expected to grow on the back of a positive tourism outlook in 
2016. Third, the g overnment’s me ga investment projects, which are expected to launch  this 
year, should help boost employment in related businesses . Fourth,  the prospect of farm 
income s should improve as drought is expected to ease  in the second half of 2016. 
Nonetheless, there remain  two key factors which will act as  a drag on consumption . First,  the 
elevated debt level has put  households in a vulnerable position . Second, a  slower -than-
expected global recovery will likely weigh down on merchandise exports, with further 
repercussion s on th e incomes of domestic households and businesses. The Committee will 
continue to closely monitor these risks to private consumption going forward.  Monetary and Financial StabilityMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   41 3. Monetary and Financial Stability  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 Financial markets   
Global financial markets  
 Volatility rose in the period since  the 
previous quarter  as shown by increases in  a few  
volatility measures  (chart  3.1), particular ly the VIX 
index .1/ The heightened volatility was due to the 
following key factors . 
                                                        
1/ VIX (Volatility  Index) is an indicator for stock market 
volatility, measure d by implied  volatility of option prices 
of the  S&P 500.   Volatility in the financial markets increased  due to  the recent monetary policy 
conduct among  major industrial countries and growing concerns over the global 
economic slowdown. However, monetary conditions in Thailand were considered  to 
remain  accommodative . Money market rates  were  broadly unchanged  in line with the 
policy  interest  rate. Costs of financing in corporate bond market s generally declined 
from the levels observed in  the previous quarter  consistent  with medium - and long -
term government bond yields . Meanwhile, t he baht appreciated since last quarter  
largely because of external influences.  
 Risks to macro -financial stability rose. The  sluggish economic recovery 
adversely affected  income and debt service  ability of the household and corporate 
sectors , in particular, f arm households and small- and medium -sized enterprises. 
While l oan quality of the banking sector consequently deteriorated , risks were judged  
to be contained  because of  commercial banks’ high levels of capital buffers and loan 
loss provision s and because of  large enterprises’ strong balance sheets . In the equity 
and bond markets the search -for-yield behavior was found  to still persist  given  low 
interest rate s. With regard to the real estate sector, risks of oversupply diminished  
somewhat thanks to the year -end boost from the government ’s stimulus measures 
aimed at expediting transactions and transfers . Meanwhile, the government ’s fiscal 
position remained sound.  
 Chart 3.1  Volatility indices
Index (January 1, 2015 = 100)
Source: BloombergVIX is an indicator for stock market volatility, measured by implied volatility of option prices of 
the S&P 500. CVIX is an indicator for currency volatility, measured by implied volatility of 9 
major currencies MOVE is an indicator for bond market volatility, measured by implied 
volatility of U.S. treasury bonds. Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   42 (1) Concerns about  the delay in the  
global economic recovery  increased , with more 
visible impacts of a slowdown in emerging market 
economies on advanced  economies . 
 (2) Increasingly accommodative 
monetary policy was adopted  by advanced 
economies in response to  a slower -than -
expected recovery prospect , with the Federal 
Reserve communicating more clearly about  a 
gradual pace of interest rate increases , the Bank 
of Japan introducing  a negative interest rate policy 
for the first time, and the European Central Bank 
easing monetary policy more than expected  on 
March 10, 2016.  
These factors  consequently  caused 
greater fluctuations in international  capital flows 
and led to a return  of capital flows to  emerging 
market economies , especially in to the bond 
markets (chart  3.2). 
Domestic financial markets  
Although s hort-term interest rates moved 
closely around the policy rate  in the period since 
the previous quarter , medium - and long -term 
government bond yields declined significantly . 
Investors were concern ed about  the pace of the 
global recovery  that was slower than expected , 
the softened  growth  momentum of the domestic 
economy  that was more  evident , and the 
increasingly  accommodative  monetary policy  
adopted by advanced economies.  
Money, bond , and stock markets  
While  short-term money market rates 
moved closely around the policy interest rate 
between  January and mid -March 2016 (chart  3.3), 
medium - and long -term government bond yields 
steadily fell (chart  3.4). The decline in yields was  
driven by investors’ concerns about  the slower -
1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 5.50 6.00 
    
            
            
    AAA AA A BBB         5                                       
     :                                                                                   
1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 5.50 6.00 
    
            
            
    AAA AA A BBB           
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)
Chart 3.3  Money market interest rates
Percent
2014 2015
Jan 28
Mar 11
Apr 29
Jun 10
Aug 5
Sep 16
Nov 4
Dec 16
2016
Feb 3
Mar 23
Chart     Government bond yields
Source: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)
Source: IIF EM Portfolio Flows TrackerChart 3.2  Total portfolio flows (equity and debt)
Billions US$Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   43 than-expected growth  outlook of the global  
economy and the more apparent  signs of the 
domestic economy ’s weaker momentum . In 
addition , the prospect  of further monetary 
accommodation by advanced economies partly 
contributed to a return  of capital flows into the 
bond markets of emerging markets , including 
Thailand. Moreover, i nsufficient domestic bond 
supply with respect to  demand  also caused a 
significant decline in bond  yields . Consequently 
the private sector’s costs of borrowing in the bond 
markets  fell in tandem with government bond  
yields , given that credit spreads between 
corporate and government bond yields remained 
largely unchanged (Chart  3.5). 
The Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) 
index  edged higher  somewhat since the 
previous quarter , after the net foreign selling 
pressures subsided  and nonresidents’ net 
purchases  finally turned positive in  February 2016  
(Chart 3.6). Meanwhile , the Market for 
Alternative Investment ( MAI) index began  to 
stabilize , having  steadily declined  since the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) 
implemented measures to curb irregular trading 
activities at the start of 2015 . In the first quarter of 
2016 retail investors’ n et purchases  importantly 
support ed the MAI index as opposed to  their net 
sales  in the last quarter of 2015  (Chart 3.7) .  
Foreign exchange market s 
 The return of capital flows into the bond 
and equity markets of reginal  economies , 
including Thailand , caused the baht to appreciate 
against the U .S. dollar relative to  the end of last 
quarter. Although t he strengthening  of the baht  
was in line  with that of regional currencies , the 
extent of  the baht  appreciation was relatively more 
on account of local gold traders’ increased U.S. 
Chart 3.5Thai corporate bond yields
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Percent3-year corporate bonds 5-year corporate bonds
Percent
Trillion bahtChart 3.6 Stock Exchange of Thailand Index 
and net buy classified by investor types
Source: Stock Exchange of ThailandIndex
Trillion baht
Source: Stock Exchange of ThailandIndexChart 3.7 Market for Alternative Investment (MAI) 
and net buy classified by investor types
Chart   8 Movements in USDTHB 
and exchange rate index
Source: Bank of Thailand (latest data on March 22, 2016 )2015Index ( 2012 = 100)
USDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEERUSDTHB
2016Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   44 dollar selling as gold price s climbed.  Nevertheless, 
the baht occasionally weakened partly because of 
better -than-expected U.S. economic indicators in 
both trade and manufacturing sectors that caused 
the dollar to strengthen . As of mark et close on 
March 15, the exchange rate stood at 35.12 baht 
against  the dollar  (Chart  3.8 and 3.9 ).  
3.2 Financial institutions  
Although the p rivate  sector’s costs of 
funds and returns on  bank  deposits  remained low 
in line with the policy rate , businesses saw little 
need to raise funds  given the sluggish economic 
outlook . Nonetheless , new loans  increased slightly 
from the third quarter of 2015 largely because of  
the low interest rate loan program initiated by the 
government to support SMEs. Meanwhile, the  
gradual economic recovery also diminished the 
need for deposit mobilization, as reflected in  the 
decline in issuance of special deposit products . 
Interest rates, credits,  and deposits  
Commercial banks’ lending and deposit 
interest rates  remained mostly unchanged 
throughout  the last quarter of 2015 and continuing 
into March 2016, consistent with the policy rate 
having been  kept unchanged  at 1.50  percent  since 
the MPC meeting  on June 10, 2015  (Table 3.1 0). 
New loans  to households  between  
November 2015 and January 2016  were higher 
than the amount extended by financial institutions 
in the third quarter of 2015 (Chart 3.10).  This 
increase in new loans  was partly due to the 
government ’s real estate stimulus  measures and  
accelerated car purchases prior to the 2016 excise 
tax hike, both of which were temporary factors that 
-3-2-101234
JPY EUR CNY IDR INR KRW MYR PHP SGD THB TWDJan 15, 2016 relative to end -Dec 2015
Mar 22 relative to  Jan 15, 2016Chart 3.9 Currency movements relative to USD
+ = appreciation relative to USD
Source: Bank of Thailand (latest data on March 22, 2016 )Percent
Note: New private credits represent seasonally -adjusted changes in credits outstanding of Other Depository
Corporations ; Source : Bank of Thailand
Chart 3.10 New private credits
Billion baht
Household CorporatePercent
Change in credit outstanding from 
previous month (seasonally adjusted)
Monthly growth of outstanding credits 
(seasonally adjusted) (RHS)Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   45 caused  mortgage  and car loans to rise . 
Nevertheless, according to the credit conditions 
survey for the fourth quarter of  2015, financial 
institutions remained rather cautious in extending 
new credit s due to concerns about  household 
repayment ability  given  the sluggish  economic 
recovery and elevated household debt . 
The amount of  total funds  raised  by the 
business  sector between November 2015 and 
January 2016 edged up relative  to the amount 
raised in  the third quarter of 2015  (Chart  3.11). 
This was due primaril y to the 100 billion baht low-
interest loan program for SMEs. New credits  
extended by commercial banks were concentrated 
in the food production , wholesale -retail , and 
construction sector s, while  the outstanding credit s 
for the financial sector and the property sector 
declined. However , after the end of the low-
interest loan program in January 2016, 
business  funding from commercial bank loans  
showed some signs of weakening . SMEs 
remained subject to tight  lending standards, as 
indicated in the credit conditions survey in the 
fourth quarter of  2015.  Incidentally , the amount of 
funds businesses raised in the bond markets 
between November 2015 and January 2016 
dipped somewhat  from the third quarter of  2015 , 
with large corporations , especially those in the 
telecommunications, food production and 
alternative energy industries, continuing to opt for  
bond issuance in place of  bank loans .  
 Deposits  outstanding  at the end of 
January 2016 increased from the end of October  
2015  attributable to  both the household and 
business sector s. Nonetheless, growth in deposits 
(including bills of exchange, B/E) remained 
sluggish  (Chart  3.12). Given credit growth had 
remained, an d was expected to be, flat,  
Chart 3.12 New deposits*
Billion baht
Household Corporate
Note:  * Change in outstanding deposits at depository institutions (excluding 
Bank of Thailand). The amounts only account for new deposits, not 
including transfers within and between commercial banks or rolled -
over deposits.
Chart 3.11 Corporate financing*
Source: Bank of Thailand-50-250255075100
Jan
2015Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan
2016Bank loans Corporate bonds Newly -issued equitiesBillion baht
Note: *Monthly change in corporate loans (seasonally adjusted),
corporate bonds excluding commercial banks and newly issued
equities. Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   46 commercial banks saw little need to raise new 
deposits, as reflected in a continued decline  in 
interest rates on special deposit products (Chart  
3.13). 
Overall, the  loan to deposit (including 
B/E) ratio did not change significantly  from the 
previous quarter , but it recently  edged down  
somewhat  due primarily to  slowing credit growth  
(Chart  3.14). 
Macro -financial stability   
 The weak economic recovery increased 
risks to macro -financial stability  as reflected in 
deteriorating loan quality . Nevertheless, the 
stability of financial institutions  remain ed assured : 
commercial banks closely monitor ed credit quality  
and continue d to hold sufficiently high  levels of 
loan loss provisions and capital buffers  that could 
provide  cushion against a decline in  loan quality. 
Meanwhile , prolonged low interest rate s set the 
stage for  the search for yield behavior, but risks to 
financial stability were assessed to be  limited.  
Loan quality of commercial banks in 2015 
deteriorated  from 2014 on the back of the sluggish  
economy. Despite  a slight improvement  in the 
fourth quarter  of 2015  compared with the third 
quarter  due to commercial banks’ effective 
management of  nonperforming loans (NPLs) 
toward  the end of the year , as reflected in the ratio 
of NPLs to total loans  that fell to  2.6 percent  at the 
end of the fourth quarter of 2015  compared with 
2.8 percent  at the end of the third quarter , the end -
2015 NPL ratio was  still higher than 2.2 percent  at 
end-2014 (Chart  3.15). This upward NPL trend 
was due to the deterioration in  the loan quality of 
large corporations and SMEs,  in particular those  in 
the retail -wholesale sector affected by the 
economic slowdown and those  in the 
manufacturing sector further restrained by 
Chart 3.13 Special deposit rates*
Note:   * Maximum rates offeredDecember 18, 2015
March 22, 2016Percent
Source: Bank of Thailand(Months)
Chart 3.14 Ratio of loans to deposits and B/Es
of commercial banks
Percent
Source: Bank of ThailandJan
96.4
Chart 3.15 Non-performing loans of commercial banks
Percent of total loans
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   47 depressed  commodity prices. In addition , the NPL 
ratio for consumer credit s in the final quarter of  
2015 , despite  declining  in all categories  from the 
previous quarter, was still higher than the end-
2014 level (Chart  3.16). 
Nevertheless, financial institutions 
remained sound  as commercial banks continued 
to closely monitor loan quality. For instance, banks 
increased their efficiency in monitoring and 
collecting  debt to prevent  a further rise  in NPL 
ratios . At the same time banks continued to  
maintain  sufficiently high  levels of capital buffers 
and loan loss provisions, as reflected in  the 
actual/ regulatory  loan loss provision  ratio at 156.3  
percent , together with the capital  adequacy  ratio at 
17.4 percent  that was  well above the regulatory 
required level of 8.5  percent . Looking ahead,  the 
Committee would closely watch loan quality , 
particularly of SME loans and consumer loans , 
which could deteriorate owing to the sluggish  
economic recovery and could therefore  affect 
commercial banks’ performance and profitability .  
 The prolonged low interest rate 
environment partly  encouraged the search for 
yield behavior observed in the domestic equity 
and bond markets . Regarding  the stock  markets, 
such yield -seeking behavior was reflected in the 
current  and forward price -earnings ( P/E) ratios in 
the MAI, which continued to trade well above 
historical averages2 (Chart 3.17) . Nevertheless , 
risks to the stability of the financial system 
remain ed limited as equity investors mostly  
conduct ed their transactions i n cash. Regarding  
the bond  market s, persistently low  yields 
continued to attract the corporate sector to debt 
                                                        
2 The current  and forward P/E ratios of the MAI stood at 
56.1 and 24.0 , respectively , as of March 22, 2016 , well 
above the 2010 -2015 averages  of 34.1 and 18.8 . 
Chart 3.16 Share of non -performing loans 
in consumer loans
Source: Bank of ThailandPercent
Chart 3.17 Price–Earnings Ratio (P/E)* of SET and MAI
Sources: Stock Exchange of Thailand and Bloomberg  (latest data on March 22, 
2016 )Securities and
Exchange Commission 
(SEC) implemented 
measures to curb
irregular market
activitiesAverage P/E of MAI ( 2010 –2015 )
Average P/E of SET ( 2010 –2015 )Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   48 financing . In particular, non-rated bond issuance 
continued to grow  in the fourth quarter of 2015. 
However,  the issuance was of short maturity and 
only by firms in certain industries  (Chart 3.18) ; in 
addition , the ratio of non -rated bonds to total 
bonds outstanding  still remained  low and the sales 
of non -rated bonds were  restricted to only 
accredited investors . Therefore , financial system 
stability risks remain ed rather limited.  
Furthermore, t he prolonged low 
interest rate environment  partly  led some 
investors to  tolerate a higher level of risks . 
Notable instances were increases in the relative 
sizes of the net asset values of daily fixed income  
funds, property  funds / real estate  investment 
trusts, and infrastructure funds. Mean while , the 
size of  foreign investment funds remained 
relatively large  (Chart 3.19) . Consequently , the 
above  investment funds  should be kept under a 
close watch.  Given a sluggish economic recovery 
and an increase in volatility in the global financial 
markets, s ome of these funds could  entail  higher 
risks, notably the foreign investment funds, which 
focused on investing in emerging market 
economies with low ratings, and fixed income 
funds,3 in particular daily fixed income funds, 
which invested  increasingly more in corporate 
debts.   
In addition , given prolonged low interest 
rates, the Committee would closely monitor  the 
search for yield behavior, including signs of 
underpricing of risks by inves tors and financial 
institutions, which  could  lead to a buildup of 
vulnerability  in the Thai financial system.  
                                                        
3 Fixed income funds consist of three  categories, namely  
money market funds, daily fixed income fund, and term 
funds. 
Note: *Percent of non -rated bonds in total corporate bonds
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Chart 3.18 Corporate bonds outstanding 
(short and long maturities)
Million bahtNumber of companies issuing non -rated bonds
5.5% 4.7%4.9%3.3%3.4%3.2%7.6%
*
02004006008001,0001,200
0%20%40%60%80%100%
                    
Other funds
Foreign investment fund
Property fund, real estate investment trust, and infrastructure fund
Term fund
Daily fixed income fund
Equity fund
Number of domestic funds (RHS)
Number of foreign investment funds (RHS)Chart 3.19  Mutual funds
Note: Exclude  VAYU 1 fund / Country fund / Property fund type 2 –type 4
Source: The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)Number of funds ShareMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   49 3.3 Non-financial sectors  
Household sector  
A slow  economic recovery and persistently 
low commodity prices continued to adversely 
affect household in comes and debt repayment 
ability.  
A slow  recovery adversely  affected 
household income s. Farm incomes continued to 
contract as a result of droughts and low global 
commodity  prices , although  non-farm incomes 
(including overtime pay ) gradually increased  
(Chart 3.20) . This led financial institutions to be 
cautious in approving new loans (Chart 3.21)  and 
partly  caused a downward trend in  household 
credit growth. As of the third quarter of  2015, 
household credit s expanded by 5.5  percent , lower 
than the 6.2  percent  growth  rate recorded in the 
previous quarter (Chart 3.22).  Weak  household 
income, co upled with elevated household debt 
resulting from a rapid rise in leverage in earlier 
periods, weakened  households’  debt repayment 
ability. This was reflected in the increase in the 
NPL ratio for consumer loans, which rose to  2.6 
percent  at the end of 2015, up from 2.1  percent  at 
the end of 2014.  
Going forward , the outlook for the 
economic recovery and the results of the  
government ’s stimulus measures , particular ly 
the provision of  soft loans to farmers affected by  
droughts and depressed  agricultural  prices , would 
need to  be closely monitored , as they would have 
important  implications for household s’ liquidity , 
income,  and debt repayment ability.   
Business sector  
Businesses were  negatively affected by 
the slow economic recovery . Revenues of most 
Note: 1/Seasonally adjusted, 12-month moving average
2/ Seasonally adjusted, 3-month moving average
Sources: Office of Agricultural Economics, National Statistical Office;
calculations by Bank of ThailandIndex (January 2013 = 100)
1/
  Chart 3.20 Household income
Diffusion Index (DI) > 0: easing standards; DI < 0 tightening standards; DI = 0: 
unchanged
-75-50-2502550
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 20162014 2015 2016Diffusion Index
Other loans Housing loans Credit card 
loans
Realized ExpectedAuto 
loansChart 3.21 Credit standards
Notes: 1/Loans to households by financial institutions
2/ Computed using fix -based GDP (base year = 1988 )
Source: Bank of ThailandChart 3.22 Household debt1/to GDP2/
Percent PercentMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   50 firms  declined from the previous quarter , 
especially those associated with commodit ies, for 
example , the steel and petroleum industry  that 
was hit by falling commodity  prices. However, 
some businesses showed signs of improving , for 
instance , the pr operty sector that benefited  from 
the government ’s real estate stimulus  measures 
and the wholesale -retail sector that was support ed 
by the tax deduction measure that allowed 
taxpayers to claim an income tax deduction by the 
amount spent on goods and servic es up to 15,000 
baht at the end of 2015.  
 Falling sales  impaired  the business 
ability to generate incomes and profits . Except 
for the property  sector, which turned in greater 
profits from increasing sales , most businesses 
experienced falling o perating profit margin s (OPM) 
and asset turnover ratio s (ATO) (Chart  3.23). 
Certain  industries with declining profitability 
included  the steel industry  that was  affected by 
depressed steel prices and the wholesale -retail 
sector  that was particularly  hurt by weak domestic 
demand.   
Despite falling sales  for most 
businesses, debt repayment ability improved 
slightly  on balance . This was because  most 
business sectors, especially the petroleum and 
petrochemical industry, faced lower costs and 
debt burden , as reflected in an increase in  the 
annualized interest c overage  ratio relative to  the 
previous quarter  (Chart  3.24). Sectors w ith low 
debt burden  should thus have  sufficient liquidity to 
cushion against increasing risks. That said, some 
businesses might have  lower debt repayment 
ability , in particular the wholesale -retail sector. 
Furthermore , if the listed companies were 
classified  into five groups according to their asset 
sizes , some firms in the  two smallest -sized groups 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand; calculation by Bank of ThailandNote: median estimatesPercentChart 3.23 Operating profit margin and return on assets
Chart 3.24 Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR)1/
classified by firm size2/
Note: median estimates
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand; calculation by Bank of Thailand*excluding petroleum and petrochemical Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   51 might  experience liquidity probl ems, as indicated 
in the apparently  much lower  levels of liquidity 
relative to  larger businesses (Chart 3.25).  
Further more , if the se smaller firms were assumed 
to represent the  SMEs  that were not  traded on the 
stock exchange, it could be concluded that  debt 
repayment ability by the SMEs  had deteriorated , 
consistent with higher NPL ratios for SMEs as 
reported at  the end of 2015.  
Real estate  sector  
The property  sector in Bangkok and its 
vicinities  improved  in the fourth quarter of 2015  on 
the back of the government ’s real estate  stimulus 
measures that boost ed year-end transactions. 
However, there remain ed a high level of excess 
supply in the property market, which constitute d a 
risk to be monitored . 
The property sector in Bangkok and its 
vicinities improved  in the fourth quarter of 2015 
on the back of the government ’s real estate 
stimulus  measures, as reflected in  a significant  
increase in new housing loans , especially for low -
rise residences,  from commercial banks  during  
November and December 2015 (Chart  3.26). 
However, the property sector moderated this 
year as a whole  from a ye ar earlier , as reflected 
in both lower demand and supply , consistent with 
a slow economic recovery, elevated household 
debt, and tightening  lending standards for 
mortgages. As a result, the proportion  of unsold 
inventory  to outstanding supply continued  to be 
high, especially the condominiums priced between 
1 and 5 million baht along the purple MRT line  
(Table 3.2) . The large unsold residential units  
pose d a risk  to be closely monitored,  as the 
sluggish  recovery and a potential delay in the  
government ’s infrastructure projects could 
significantly reduce  demand for housing . 
0246810
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul JanLow-rise residences Condominiums TotalThousand units, seasonally adjusted
Note: * 3-month moving average
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 3.26 New residential units with loans from
commercial banks in Bangkok and vicinity
2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016
Price
(million baht)Central 
Business 
District*Along MRT 
Green Line**Along MRT 
Purple Line***
Under 1 - -    
  -          
  -           
  -           
  -            
Above        % 10 Table 3.2 Shares of unsold inventories at end -2015
Note:  * Phaholyothin Patumwan  Sukhumvit  Rama 4 Yannawa Silom Phranakhon
** Nontaburi  Bang -sue Rattanathibet  Tha-it Bang -bua-thong
    Onnuch Srinakarin  Bang -na Bearing
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA)
Chart 3.25 Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR)* and 
Debt to Equity (D/E) ratios classified by firm size
Notes: *Annualized ICR, with 25thpercentile representing companies with low Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   52 However, the majority of property 
developers had a strong balance sheet , which 
would  enable them to weather through the impacts 
from risks of rising unsold inventories. 
Furthermore, the number of new projects 
launched during the latter half of 2015 fell sharply 
for both condominiums and residential hous es 
(Chart 3.27), reflecting the adjustment by the 
property developing  in response to the economic 
outlook, which in part helped reduce the risks of 
excess supply to some degree.  
Fiscal sector  
Stability of the fiscal sector continued 
to be strong , as indicated in the public debt to 
GDP ratio that remained  below the fiscal 
sustainability threshold of 60 percent. As of 
December  2015,  the ratio stood at 44.4  percent , 
up slightly  from 43.1  percent  in September 2015  
(Chart 3.28) . The increase was  due to borrowings 
to cover budget deficit and  extra -budgetary 
investment  spending  for water  resource 
management  and urgent  transport  system  
development under the government’s second -
phase economic stimulus pac kage . Meanwhile , 
treasury cash balance fell relative to the end of the 
previous quarter but remained  sufficient to meet 
unexpected fiscal needs. As of the end of January 
2016, treasury cash balance stood at 248 billion 
baht, down from 426 billion  baht at the end of 
Septem ber 2015. The decline in the treasury cash 
balance  was due to (1) an increase in regular 
payments following the pay rise for government 
officials , (2) a continued increase in outlays for 
public investment in accordance with the 
economic stimulus measures , and (3)  a fall in 
government revenues due to the  postponement of 
VAT collection to the following  month. The drop in 
treasury cash balance was not judged to be  a 
0246810121416
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul JanLow-rise residents Condominiums TotalThousand units
Note: * 3-month moving average
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA),  calculations by Bank of 
ThailandChart 3.27 New residential project launches
in Bangkok and its vicinities
2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016
Notes: ( 1) Chart shows calendar years, ( 2) Official figures for debt -to-GDP ratio 
based on chained -volume measure GDP are available only for 
February and March 2015 . Figures prior to this period are calculated 
by Bank of Thailand.Chart 3.28 Public debt to GDP Ratio*
Percent of GDPMonetary Policy Report March 2016                   53 concern , as the government front-loaded spending  
early in the fiscal year , while the revenue 
collection was scheduled to  take place later on.  
Going forward , pressures on the fiscal 
stability would  likely increase  from (1) additional 
borrowing needed to cover larger budget deficit , 
(2) an increase in extra -budgetary borrowings for 
the transportation infrastructure projects in 
accordance with the Urgent Transportation Action 
Plan, according to which a number of  projects 
were expected to  be launched in 2016 , and (3) 
additional fiscal liabilities  on the back of various 
quasi-fiscal activities as prescribed by the 
economic stimulus packages . These additional 
quasi -fiscal obligations included  (1) 
compensations for the reduction in interest 
incomes to specialized financial institutions taking 
part in the soft loan programs  and (2)  
compensations to the Thai Credit Guarantee 
Corporation for SME loan guarantee fees in 
accordance with the Portfolio Guarantee Scheme 
5 (PGS -5) and also for loan guarantee  fees under 
the second phase of guarantee scheme for micro -
entrepreneurs.  
  Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   54  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
H1 Q3 Q4 H1 Q3 Q4 Jan Feb
1.3 1.1 1.4 1.2 1.4 0.9 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.7
1,497.7 1,288.0 1,485.8 1,585.7 1,497.7 1,504.6 1,349.0 1,288.0 1,301.0 1,332.4
12.5 13.9 14.1 8.4 13.4 12.0 12.3 13.7 21.7 12.5
17.8 22.6 17.9 18.5 17.8 20.1 17.8 22.6 22.9 19.3
4.0 5.1 4.3 3.8 3.4 4.5 5.2 6.1 3.6 4.9
104.3 108.5 102.7 104.6 107.0 110.8 106.6 105.9 106.5 106.9
103.0 104.4 101.9 103.4 105.0 106.99 102.4 101.3 100.7 101.0
6.75 6.5 6.75 6.75 6.75 6.51 6.5 6.5 6.51 6.51
1.73 1.4 1.85 1.73 1.73 1.5 1.46 1.4 1.4 1.4
16.8 17.4 15.9 17.1 16.8 16.8 17.3 17.4 N.A N.A
214.1 192.3 111.6 53.9 48.7 103.7 50.0 38.6 N.A N.A
1.2 0.9 1.5 1.3 1.2 1.3 1.2 0.9 N.A N.A
95.7 97.0 98.3 97.2 95.7 98.3 97.2 95.7 N.A N.A
79.8 N.A 77.5 78.6 79.8 80.7 81.1 N.A. N.A N.A
2.5 N.A 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 N.A. N.A N.A
3.5 2.6 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.5 3.6 2.6 N.A N.A
1.6 1.7 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.8 1.7 N.A N.A
8.3 7.8 8.2 8.2 8.3 8.5 8.6 7.8 N.A N.A
2.1 2.2 2.2 2.4 2.1 2.6 2.6 2.2 N.A N.A
2.5 2.3 2.4 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.3 N.A N.A
7.1 7.5 7.1 7.4 6.9 7.8 7.7 6.9 N.A N.A
0.8 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 N.A N.A
6.0 5.1 6.2 5.9 5.6 5.2 4.8 5.4 N.A N.A
1.6 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.7 N.A N.A1. Financial markets sector
Bond marketIndicators2014Table 3.3 Sectoral Indicators for assessing risks and vulnerabilities to financial stability
20152016 2015
Equity market    Bond spread (10 years -2 years )
    Price to Earnings Ratio (times)
FX market    SET Index (End of period)
    Actual volatility (SET Index )1/
    Minimum lending rate (MLR)4/
   12-month fixed deposit rate4/    Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER)
2. Financial institutions sector3/    Actual volatility (baht) (%annualized )2/
    Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 
    Return on assets (ROA)
LiquidityEarnings and profitability
    Net profit (billion baht)Capital adequacy
    Regulatory capital to risk-weighted asset (%)
Proportion of loans that are 3 months delinquent (%)
   Thai commercial banks :Household debt to GDP (times)
Financial assets to debt (time)    Loan to deposit and B/E
3. Household sector
        Other personal loans
4. Non-financial corporate sector 5/        Auto leasing
        Credit cards        Consumer loans
        Housing loans
    Operating profit margin (%)
    Debt to equity ratio (times)
    Income coverage ratio (times)
    Current ratio (times)2014Monetary Policy Report March 2016                   55  
H1 Q3 Q4 H1 Q3 Q4 Jan Feb
1.1 1.6 1.2 1.1 1.1 2.0 2.0 1.6 N.A N.A
3.1 3.5 3.4 3.4 3.1 3.4 3.6 3.5 N.A N.A
62,839 59,667 29,195 17,345 16,299 26,503 15,770 17,394       3 ,104        4 ,580
15,694 13,152 7,537 4,230 3,927 6,384 3,115 3,653          689        1 ,065
21,764 19,210 10,705 5,844 5,215 9,199 4,812 5,199       1 ,071        1 ,555
25,381 27,305 10,953 7,271 7,157 10,920 7,843 8,542       1 ,344        1 ,960
Supply
111,211 107,988 54,576 28,268 28,367 59,316 24,436 24,236       6 ,669        5 ,369
18,933 17,637 10,411 5,349 3,173 6,354 7,388 3,895          744        1 ,304
26,980 27,518 14,760 6,611 5,609 15,349 6,034 6,135       1 ,312        2 ,269
65,298 62,833 29,405 16,308 19,585 37,613 11,014 14,206       4 ,613        1 ,796
127.9 129.3 124.9 128.8 127.9 127.7 129.6 129.3 128.6 128.8
133.5 137.5 127.4 131.3 133.5 133.7 134.7 137.5 138.3 139.2
151.1 160.9 142.0 141.8 151.1 152.1 156.4 160.9 160.1 159.9
145.6 168.8 140.6 143.6 145.6 151.9 157.8 168.8 169.7 167.1
46.3 44.4 47.8 47.2 46.3 42.8 43.1 44.4 N.A N.A
6/ Due to the fact that the structure of the housing market has changed significantly , the Bank of Thailand is currently improving the price index to better reflect the structure change5/ Only listed companies on SET (median ); with revisions to data and methodology .Table 3.3 Sectoral Indicators for assessing risks and vulnerabilities to financial stability
20152014 2016 2015
   Single-detached houses (including land)   Condominiums(Bangkok and its vicinity)
   Single-detached and semi-detached housesIndicators
The number of approved mortgages from banks 
1/ Annualized standard deviation of return
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 4 largest Thai commercial banks2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )2014
   Townhouses and commercial buildings
   Condominiums
The number of new openings (Bangkok and its vicinity)
   Single-detached and semi-detached houses
   Townhouses and commercial buildings4. Non-financial corporate sector 5/  (Continues )
Delinquency and NPL ratio
    Large bussiness
    SMEs
5. Real estate sector
demand
   Public debt to GDP (%)   Land
6. Fiscal sector   Townhouses (including land)
   CondominiumsHousing price index 6/