 
Monetary Policy Report  September  2019 
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
September  2019 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. M athee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Kanit Sangsubhan  Member  
Mr. Subhak Siwaraksa  Member  
Mr. Somchai Jitsuchon  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  September  2019 
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 9. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardizing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reas ons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report September  2019  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  4 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions for trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Oil prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ............................  10 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ........................  10 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
BOX : Adjustments in the real estate sector following the revision of  
the loan -to-value (LTV) measure  
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ........  23 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
3. Monetary Policy  Decision  ................................ ................................ .................  30 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
BOX : Financial cycle and its policy implications  
BOX : The concept of growth at risk and the linkage to Thailand’s financial stability  
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  39 
4.1 Table s ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  39 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Data  Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  43 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment    
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   1 Executive Summary  
Monetary Policy Conduct in the Third Quarter of 2019  
The Thai economy was expected to expand at a lower rate than previously assessed and below potential 
due to a decline in exports which affected domestic demand. Headline inflation in 20 19 was projected to be 
lower than previously assessed and below the lower bound of the inflation target due to lower -than-expected 
energy prices and core inflation. However, inflation was expected to rise toward the target next year. 
Meanwhile, there remai ned risks in the financial system that might pose vulnerabilities to financial stability in 
the future. The Committee voted 5 to 2 to cut the policy rate by 0.25 percentage point from 1.75 to 
1.50 percent at the meeting on August 7, 2019 and voted unanimou sly to maintain the policy rate at 
1.50 percent at the meeting on September 25, 2019.  At the most recent meeting, the Committee viewed 
that accommodative monetary policy stance should support the rise of headline inflation toward target, and 
would contribu te to the continuation of economic growth amid heightened risks mainly from the external 
front. Nevertheless, the Committee remained concerned about baht appreciation against trading partner 
currencies, which could affect the economy to a larger degree ami d heightened external risks. The 
Committee thus saw the need to closely monitor developments of exchange rates and capital flows, and 
would consider implementing additional measures at an appropriate timing if necessary. With regard to 
addressing financial  stability risks, given softening economic outlook and prolonged low interest rates in the 
period ahead, the Committee viewed that microprudential and macroprudential measures should be 
appropriately combined and targeted.  
Looking ahead, the Committee wou ld be data -dependent by  closely monitoring the developments of the 
outlook for growth, inflation, and financial stability, together with associated risks, especially the impacts from 
trade tensions, in deliberating appropriate monetary policy going forward . The Committee would stand ready 
to use policy tools as appropriate. Nevertheless, the Thai economy continued to face structural problems, 
which would affect competitiveness and growth outlook going forward. This should be firmly addressed by 
all related parties.  
Assessment of the Economic and Financial Outlook as the Basis for Policy Formulation  
1. Global Economy  
The global economy was expected to expand at a slower pace  due to intensifying trade tensions 
between the U.S. and China weighing on production,  exports, and private investment. However, private 
consumption continued to be an important driver, underpinned by robust employment, while more 
accommodative monetary policy stance and additional government stimulus measures would support 
growth of advanc ed economies in the period ahead. The Committee thus revised down growth 
projection of Thailand’s trading partner economies to 2.8 percent in 2019 and 2.7 percent in 2020. 
Nonetheless, the probability of trading partner economies underperforming the baseli ne projection  
remained due to (1) uncertainties from prolonged trade tensions, which could undermine consumption and 
investment outlook, (2) uncertainties pertaining to the recovery of electronics cycle and exports, as well as 
(3) additional geopolitical r isks which could increase volatility in the financial and commodity markets.  
Many central banks cut their policy rates, the majority of them shifting toward more dovish stance 
to shore up the economy.  The Federal Reserve (Fed) cut its policy rate again in  September 2019 to 1.75  
– 2.00 percent. Another policy rate cut was expected by the end of this year with another cut in 2020. The 
European Central Bank (ECB) announced a package of additional monetary policy easing measures in 
September. The Bank of Japan  (BOJ) would likely ease monetary policy further should the economy 
experience a significant slowdown. Other regional central banks, including the Reserve Bank of Australia 
(RBA), Bank of Korea (BOK), the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Bangko Sentral ng Pili pinas (BSP) and Bank 
Indonesia (BI) lowered their policy rates to support weakening economic and inflation outlook.   
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   2 Emerging markets (EMs) continued to experience volatile capital flows.  Capital outflows from EMs 
occurred due to (1) investor concerns about  the Fed’s monetary policy stance being less dovish than the 
markets anticipated, (2) intensifying trade tensions, (3) heightening geopolitical risks, as well as (4) more 
accommodative monetary policy of many EM central banks, including Thailand. However, capital flows 
returned to EMs at the end of the third quarter after concerns over trade tensions alleviated and advanced 
economy central banks shifted towards a more dovish monetary policy stance.  
2. Financial Conditions and Financial Stability  
Thailand’s  overall financial conditions remained accommodative  as reflected by the real policy rate that 
remained at a low level relative to those of other EMs. Interest rates in Thailand’s financial markets, including 
short -term government bond yields, corporate bo nd yields, and some commercial banks’ lending rates 
declined in tandem with the policy rate cut. However, long -term government bond yields abruptly fell due to 
both internal and external factors. Overall financing activities continued to expand from the pr evious quarter. 
However, private credit exhibited slower growth mainly due to business loans extended to manufacturing, 
trade, and service sectors. Credit extended to households moderated, especially mortgage and auto leasing 
loans. The baht appreciated ag ainst the U.S. dollar from the end of the previous quarter on account of 
concerns over global economic slowdown as well as intensifying and prolonged trade tensions. In particular, 
after the U.S. announced additional tariffs on Chinese imports and designat ed China as a currency 
manipulator, safe -haven asset prices rose such as gold, and the Japanese yen and Thai baht strengthened. 
The real effective exchange rate (REER) index also appreciated from the last quarter.  
There remained risks in the financial sys tem that could pose vulnerabilities to financial stability in 
the future. However, some risks abated due to the implementation of targeted prudential measures 
and the economic slowdown.  For instance, risks in the real estate sector had been partly addresse d 
through the revised loan -to-value (LTV) measure, as reflected by (1) more tightening lending standards 
among financial institutions, especially for loans extended to the same purchaser acquiring the second and 
subsequent residential units, (2) subdued sp eculation in the property market, (3) lower residential prices 
encouraging affordability of some real demand, and (4) subsequent adjustments by real estate developers 
to cope with softening demand. On the other hand, some risks had not improved , including (1) 
weakening ability of households and SMEs to cope with negative income shocks, (2) rising risks of 
oversupply in the real estate market following domestic and foreign demand slowdown, and (3) the search -
for-yield behavior which could lead to underpricin g of risks, particularly among saving cooperatives and large 
corporates.  
3. Economic and Inflation Outlook  
The Thai economy was expected to expand at a slower pace at 2.8 and 3.3 percent in 2019 and 2020, 
respectively , which would be lower than the previou s assessment in the Monetary Policy Report  and below 
potential. This was due to a slowdown in both external and domestic demand. Merchandise and services 
exports were expected to exhibit slower growth than previously assessed due to further slowdown in glo bal 
trade volume and trading partner economies. In addition, merchandise exports contraction began to impact 
private consumption and private investment. Meanwhile, public expenditure would grow at a slower rate 
owing partly to delays in state -owned enterpr ise investment projects. The annual average of headline 
inflation was projected to be lower, particularly in 2019 due to falling energy prices and slower core inflation 
in line with demand -pull pressures. Nonetheless, headline inflation was projected to in crease toward the 
inflation target in 2020 in line with the economic outlook and cost -push inflationary pressures from the 
prospects of minimum wage increase.  
The value of merchandise exports in 2019 was expected to contract , mainly due to the decline in export 
volume following intensifying and prolonged trade tensions. Export prices were projected to fall in line with 
global crude oil prices. In the period ahead, merchandise exports would recover thanks to the relocation of  
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   3 production base to Thailand in previous periods. Moreover, the U.S. would import more categories of Thai 
exports to substitute Chinese imports.  
Exports of services were projected to decelerate  consistent with the outlook of most foreign tourist 
nationalities and lower spending per head  amid the global economic slowdown. However, government 
measures to boost tourism through extending the exemption of visa -on-arrival (VOA) fees from the end of 
October 2019 to April 2020 would attract more foreign tourists.  
Private consumption was expected  to be weighed down  by weakened purchasing power. This was due 
to greater impacts of exports on employment and working hours in export -related manufacturing sectors. 
Farm income was projected to decline next year from the high base effect of agricultural p rices due to natural 
disasters this year. In addition, elevated household debt may exert additional pressures on consumption, 
especially when household income were restrained. Despite all these, consumption would be shored up in 
the near term by government  economic stimulus measures during the second half of 2019.  
Private investment would expand at a lower rate than previously assessed  in line with export 
contraction and domestic demand slowdown. However, government stimulus measures would bolster 
private i nvestment to some extent. Looking ahead, private investment would benefit from additional 
relocation of production base to Thailand as businesses seek to avoid the impact of intensifying and 
prolonged trade tensions. Moreover, investor confidence was expec ted to pick up due to continued 
infrastructure investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) as well as the public -private partnership 
(PPP) projects.  
Public spending would support economic growth to a lesser extent than previously assessed  due to 
delays in state -owned enterprise investment projects. In addition, there was a change in budget structure of 
the Annual Budget Expenditure Act B.E. 2563 (A.D. 2020) that led to a smaller proportion of capital 
expenditure and a larger proportion of current expe nditure. Public investment would subsequently 
decelerate, while government consumption would increase in 2020.  
Headline inflation was projected to be lower than the previous projection and below the inflation 
target in 2019 at 0.8 percent  due to lower -than-expected outturns of energy prices and core inflation 
between June and August 2019. Core inflation would also soften in line with demand -pull inflationary 
pressures. Energy prices were projected to decline in tandem with global crude oil prices, although  fresh 
food prices were expected to rise in the short term which would support headline inflation to some extent. 
Nevertheless, the Committee assessed that headline inflation would increase toward the target in 
2020 at 1.0 percent.  Core inflation was proje cted to increase from 0.6 percent in 2019 to 0.9 percent 
in 2020  in line with the growth outlook and  cost-push pressures from the prospects of minimum 
wage increase next year.   
The growth and inflation projections were subject to greater downside risks tha n the assessment in 
the previous Monetary Policy Report  mainly due to external risks. The possibilities that the Thai 
economy would underperform the baseline projection would be  due to (1) slower -than-expected trading 
partner economies and global trade vol ume as a result of intensifying trade tensions, impinging on Thai 
merchandise exports more than expected, (2) higher -than-expected increase in crude oil prices due to 
intensifying tensions in the Middle East, (3) potential implementation delay in governmen t policy and 
discontinuity from the previous government, and (4) larger -than-expected household income shocks 
impinging on private consumption. On the other hand, there were possibilities that the Thai economy 
would outperform the baseline projection attri butable to  (1) higher -than-projected growth of trading 
partner economies if there were additional government stimulus measures, improvements in trade tensions, 
and faster -than-expected recovery in the electronics cycle, and (2) higher -than-expected domesti c demand 
as a result of public infrastructure investment and PPP projects, which may boost private investment, as well 
as the potential implementation of additional government stimulus measures. Downside risks to headline 
and core inflation projections rem ained , in line with risks to the growth projection.   
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   4 1. Global Economy  
Major advanced economies would slow down in line with production, exports and private 
investment . However,  private consumption continued to be important  driver , underpinned by 
robust e mployment.  
In the second quarter of 2019 , the U.S. and euro area  economy  expanded at a 
slower pace than in the previous quarter  on account of moderating exports and private 
investment. Production also contracted this quarter as a result of intensif ying tra de tensions , 
particularly between the U.S. and China, uncertainties surrounding the no-deal Brexit, and 
prolonged geopolitical issues  such as  political issues in Italy, which weighed on confidence  in 
the private sector . However, the Japanese economy  accele rated from  the previous quarter  
driven by improving private consumption , partly due to this year’s extended  holiday  period s.  
In the period ahead, major advanced economies could face risks of  a slower 
economic growth  from  (1) impacts  of trade tensions  on production, exports, and global 
trade volume, and (2) impacts  of prolonged geopolitical  issues on invest or confidence. 
However , private consumption continued to be important  driver given robust labor market, 
especially employment in the service s sector. How ever, there were signs of somewhat 
softening labor markets, as indicated by  high job vacancy (Chart 1.1). Developments in the 
labor market thus warranted close monitoring. In this regard , a more accommodative monetary 
policy stance and greater role of fisc al policy would support growth of major advanced 
economies , despite  external uncertainties in the period ahead.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2060100140180
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    US Euro Area* JapanChart 1. 1 Labor markets in major advanced economies 
exhibited modest signs , reflected by high levels of job vacancies
Note: * Euro area economy is a GDP -weighted average of 
Germany , France and Italy. 
Source:  CEIC  
 Index, sa (2007 Q1 = 100)Job vacancy in major advanced economies 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   5 Asian economies would expand at a slower pace mainly on account of trade protectionist 
measures  between the U.S. and China . 
In the second quarter of 2019 , the Chinese economy expanded at a slower pace 
than in the previous quarter , mainly as production and exports were affected by trade 
protectionist measures. Meanwhile, overall investment improved in tandem with infrastructure 
investm ent, partly thanks to government measures  to support investment, including  the 
relaxation of regulations to facilitate local governments’ issuance of special bonds. In the 
period ahead, a variety of policy tools to support the domestic economy, such as  facilitating 
local government bond issuance s, preparin g for proactive measures to stimulate domestic 
demand, and reducing financing costs  to a low level , would help mitigate negative impacts 
from external factors to some extent and shore up the Chinese econom y to achieve the 
government’s economic growth target.  
In the second quarter of 2019 , Asian economies (excluding Japan and China) 
moderated from the previous quarter  as production and exports were affected by trade 
protectionist measures. There were also country -specific factors  in some countries,  such as  
protest s in Hong Kong affecting tourist figures , and a delayed approval of the Philippines’ 
government budget  for the fiscal year 2019 . Looking ahead, Asian merchandise exports were 
expected to  slow down i n line with global trade volume and a prolonged down cycle of the  
electronic  product s (Chart 1.2). Moreover, businesses postponed their investment as 
prolonged geopolitical issues in many countries undermined confidence.  However, robust 
labor markets, espe cially employment in the service s sector, and government stimulus 
measures, such as higher investment in infrastructure projects , welfare subsidies,  and 
minimum wage increases, would help mitigate the impact of the economic slowdown and 
support domestic de mand in the period ahead.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
                        China Hongkong (Jul) Taiwan
South Korea Malaysia (Jul) Singapore
Indonesia Philippines (Jul) Thailand (ex.gold)
Aug 19Chart 1.2 Asian exports contracted in line with global trade 
slowdown and a prolonged down cycle of electronic products
Index , 3mma sa (Jan 2014 = 100)Exports value 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   6 Growth projections for Thailand’s trading partner economies were revised downward, with 
risks tilting slightly more to the downside.  
Going forward,  Thailand’s trading partner economies were projected to slow 
down more  than previously assessed in the previous Monetary Policy Report .1/ This 
would be  due to, f irst, prolonged  and intensifying trade  tensions , particularly as the U.S. raised 
tariffs on Chinese imports worth 250 billion U.S. dollars from  a previous rate of  25 to 30  
percent , effective on 15 October 2019, and additionally raised tariffs on the remaining Chinese 
imports worth 300 billion U.S. dollars from a previous rate of 10 to 15  percent , which would be 
gradually effective on 1 September 2019 and 15 December 2 019. Subsequently, China 
responded by increasing tariffs on U.S. imports worth 75 billion U.S. dollars from 5 -25 to  
10-35 percent , which would be gradually effective on 1 September 2019 and 15 December 
2019. Second, other prolonged  geopolitical issues mig ht affect confidence  and investment,  
including protests in Hong Kong, tensions in the Korean Peninsula and the Middle East, as 
well as disputes between Japan and South Korea. The Committee thus revised down 
growth projection s for Thailand’s trading partner s from 3.0 to 2.8  percent  in 2019 and 
from 2.8 to 2.7  percent  in 2020 . (Table 1.1)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee assessed that there were possibilities that trading partners’ 
growth could underperform the baseline projection in line with slightly greater 
downsid e risks.  Such risks included ( 1) uncertainties pertaining to trade tensions  that could 
be prolonged and thus affect consumption  and investment outlook , and the recovery of 
electronics cycle  and exports , and (2) geopolitical risks that could intensify and might lead to 
                                      
1/ Growth projections for  the euro area and Japan in 2019 were  higher than in the previous Monetary Policy Report  
in June 2019, due to revisions of all  series , resulting in higher growth after data revision,  despite softening 
economic outlook for these countries .  
Weight (%) 2018 * 2019 2020
United States 15.9 2.9 2.3 (2.5) 1.7 (1.7)
Euro area 10.3 1.9 1.2 (1.1) 1.3 (1.4)
Japan 14.1 0.8 1.0 (0.9) 0.2 (0.3)
China 17.1 6.6 6.1 (6.1) 5.8 (5.8)
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 34.2 4.0 2.9 (3.5) 3.3 (3.5)
Total*** 100 3.5 2.8 (3.0) 2.7 (2.8)
Note:   *Outturn
 **Weighted by   trading partners’ shares in Thailand’s exports in     , namely,
    Singapore (5.3%), Hong Kong (7.1%), Malaysia (6.6%), Taiwan (2.2%), Indonesia (5.7%), 
    South Korea (2.8%), and Philippines (4.5%)
***Weighted by    trading partners’ shares in Thailand’s exports in      
    (including the United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) as reported in Monetary Policy Report, June 2019Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partner growth
Annual change (%YoY)  
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   7 volatilities in financial and commodity markets. However, risk of no -deal Brexit was close to 
the previous assessment and continued to prolong.  
Many central banks cut their policy rates , the majority of them shifting toward more dovish 
stance to shore up t he econom y 
Monetary policies of major advanced economies’ central banks became more 
accommodative  to cushion  against a  potential  economic slowdown . The Federal Reserve 
(Fed) cut its policy rate in September 2019 from 2.0 -2.25 percent  to 1.75 -2.0 percent . Another 
policy rate cut was expected in 2019 with another cut in 2020. The European Central Bank 
(ECB) announced a package of additional monetary  easing  measures .2/ Meanwhile, the Bank 
of Japan (BOJ) would likely ease monetary policy further should the economy experience  a 
significant slowdown.  
Regional central banks shifted toward a more dovish  monetary  policy stance  to 
support weakening  economic and inflation outlook. The Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), the 
Bank of Korea (BOK), the Reserve Ba nk of India (RBI), and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) 
cut their policy rates by 0.25  percentage point . Bank Indonesia (BI) cut its policy rate three 
consecutive times , totaling 0.75  percent point , in the third quarter.   
Emerging markets (EMs) experienc ed net capital outflows on investor concerns over 
intensifying trade tensions. However, capital flows returned to EMs at the end of the third 
quarter after those concerns alleviated  
In the first half of the third quarter in 2019 , investor concerns in the g lobal financial 
market increased  following the Fed’s signals on a less dovish monetary policy stance than the 
market s anticipated , intensifying trade tensions between the U.S. and China, as well as trade 
tensions among  other trading partners  such as Japan and South Korea. Moreover, heightened 
geopolitical risks, especially prolonged and increasingly violent protests in Hong Kong , also 
dampened  investor sentiment . This was  reflected by a higher  VIX index  (Chart 1.3),3/ a decline 
in global stock indices, as well as investors’ risk -off sentiments  and continued portfolio outflows 
from EMs.  In addition to a more accommodative monetary policy of many  EM central banks 
including Thailand , these induced further capital outflows from the bond market. However, at 
the e nd of the third quarter, concerns over trade tensions alleviated as the U.S. and China 
would resume trade negotiations once again in October and postpone the enforcement of 
import tariffs on certain products prior to the negotiations. Furthermore , central banks of major 
advanced econom ies, especially the Fed and ECB, shifted toward a more dovish monetary 
policy stance . These factors resulted in a decline in the VIX index and capital flows started to 
return to EMs.  
                                      
2/  (1) The ECB cut the deposit facility rate from -0.40 to -0.50 percent, ( 2) raised the purchase amount under the 
asset purchase program (APP ) to 20 billion euro per month from previously maintaining the reinvestment, ( 3) 
amended details and exten ded the period of  the plan to inject liquidity in the financial system through the third 
targeted longer -term refinancing operations (TLTROs -III) from  2 to 3 years  to support a more accommodative 
monetary policy stance through commercial bank lending channel , and (4) started the two -tier system for 
commercial banks ’ reserves , where  excess reserves would be partially exempted from the negative deposit 
facility rate.   
3/ VIX Index is a measure of the stock market volatility implied by S&P 500 Index options   
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   8 Looking ahead, the global financial markets  would remain highly volatile. EMs capital 
inflows and outflows might fluctuate in tandem with uncertainties of the ongoing trade 
protectionist measures, advanced economies’ monetary policy stance, Brexit developments,  as 
well as geopolitical risks.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dubai crude oil prices in the third quarter of 2019 declined from the previous quarter driven 
by concerns over a softening global economic outlook and lower -than-expected  demand 
for crude oil. At the end of the third quarter, the attacks on Saudi A rabia ‘s oil processing 
facilities drove crude oil prices upward . 
Dubai crude oil prices in the third quarter of 2019 decreased from the previous 
quarter  due to lower crude oil demand than market expected  as a result of intensified trade 
tensions between t he U.S. and China. Thus, Dubai  crude oil price s decreased to 60.0 U.S. 
dollars per barrel since the middle of the quarter , despite factors  that pushed crude oil prices 
slightly upward. These factors included (1) a tight crude oil supply due to a continued reduction 
of the production capacity by OPEC members and allies in accordance with the agreement to 
cut crude oil production, and ( ) attacks on Saudi Arabia‘s oil processing facilities at the end 
of the quarter . These  heightened tensions in the Middle Eas t and caused the market to expect  
that Saudi  Arabia’s crude oil production would be reduced by half . 
The Committee thus revised  the projection for Dubai crude oil price s in 2019  and 
2020  from 65.7 and 65.0 U.S. dollars per barrel to 64.0  and 63.0  U.S. dollars per barrel , 
respectively . This downward revision was because the global economy was expected to slow 
down more than previously assessed following  intensified trade tensions . In addition, the 
International Maritime Organization (IMO)’s enforcement of th e new marine fuel regulations 
from January 2020  onward  might lower demand for high -sulfur crude oil, including Dubai  
crude oil. This factor was expected to have a larger impact on crude  oil price s during the 
051015202530
-6,000-4,000-2,00002,0004,0006,000
Jun-18
Jun-18
Jul-18
Aug-18
Aug-18
Sep-18
Oct-18
Oct-18
Nov-18
Dec-18
Dec-18
Jan-19
Feb-19
Mar-19
Mar-19
Apr-19
May-19
May-19
Jun-19
Jul-19
Jul-19
Aug-19
Sep-19Debt securities Equity securities VIX Index (RHS)Chart 1.3 EMs experienced capital outflows amid concerns over trade 
tensions and slowing outlook of the global economy. However, capital 
inflows returned to EMs following improved sentiments over US -China 
trade tensions at the end of the third quarter.
Net portfolio inflows to EMs* and VIX index (weekly)
Million USD
+ Net capital inflows
-Net capital outflows
Note: *EMs include Thailand, Indonesia, India, South Africa, and Turkey 
Sources:  Bloomberg and  Institutional Institute of Finance Index 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   9 projection period than the attacks on Saudi Ara bia’s oil processing facilities , whose impact  
was expected to be resolved in the short run . Moreover, risks to the project ion of Dubai 
crude oil prices were revised to be in balance , from tilting downward  in the previous 
Monetary Policy Report . This was as  there were higher possibilities of higher -than-baseline 
crude oil prices given potentially intensifying geopolitical issues, especially in the Middle East , 
after the attacks on Saudi Arabia’s oil processing  facilities.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30507090110
Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Q1
2020Q1
2021   Upper bound               Lower bound        Jun 19                    Sep 19Chart 1.4 Dubai crude oil prices in 2019 Q3 decreased from the 
previous quarter due to concerns over global economic slowdown 
and lower crude oil demand than market expected
U.S. dollar/barrel 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   10 2. The Th ai Economy  
2.1 Recent developments  
The Thai economy expanded at a slower pace in the second quarter of 2019 due to 
slowdown in both domestic and external demand . 
In the second quarter of 2019 , the Thai economy expanded 2.3 percent from the 
same period las t year. Growth moderated from the previous quarter and was lower than 
previously assessed in the previous Monetary Policy Report , due to domestic and external 
demand  slowdown . Private consumption moderated mainly due to spending on durable goods 
and servic es. Moreover, factors supporting overall purchasing power weakened, as reflected 
by declin ing consumer confidence and household income  slowdown  consistent  with lower  
employment. However, consumption was supported by additional government measures 
aiding  lower income groups through the social welfare card scheme, which s hored up  
household purchasing power. Private investment slowed down on account of both residential 
construction and machinery and equipment. Public spending growth decelerated mainly due 
to personnel compensation expenditure, while public investment growth resumed thanks to 
accelerat ed construction investment of the central  government. With regard to external 
demand, merchandise exports continued to contract across most  product categories due to 
the slowdown in trading partner economies, trade protectionis m between the U.S. and China, 
as well as a prolonged down cycle of the electronic products. Manufacturing exports contracted , 
including electronic components and devices, automobile, and petro leum -related products. 
Exports of agricultural products continued to  contract as prices of Thai rice export s in U.S. 
dollar term s were higher than those of competitors, while export volume of rubber was affected 
by the Agreed Export Tonnage Scheme (AETS) o f the International Tripartite Rubber Council 
(IRTC).4   Exports of services continued to contract as tourism receipts declined in line with 
moderation in foreign tourist  figures . Overall, the Thai economy expanded 0.6 percent in the 
second quarter of 2019 from the previous quarter,  seasonally adjusted .   
In the third quarter of 2019 , most recent economic indicators reflected that t he Thai 
economy would expand at a slower rate  relative to  the previous quarter. Private consumption grew 
at a low rate relative to the first half of the year, particular durable goods, in line with a continued 
decline in consumer confidence. In addition, employment of both non -farm and farm households 
dropped, partly as a result of export contraction in the previous period. However , the government  
increase d extra budget  for the social welfare card scheme , which  was expected to  shore up 
household  purchasing power to some extent. Private investment slowed down in line with declinin g 
investment in residential construction . However, investment in machinery and equipment of some 
industries expand ed thanks to the relocation of production base to Thailand to mitigate the impact 
of trade protectioni sm. Government spending, excluding transfers, grew on the back of both current 
and capital exp enditures. Meanwhile, public  investment expanded mainly due to the Department of 
Highways’ disbursement. Merchandise exports continued to contract owing to a slowdown in the 
global economy and global trade volume, as well as a prolonged down cycle of the e lectronic 
products.  However, exports of some product categories improved, such as home electrical 
appliances, thanks to trade diversion effect after having been affected by  the impact of trade 
                                      
4/ Members of the International Tripartite Rubber Council (IRTC) include Thailand, Indonesia, and Malaysia.   
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   11 protectioni sm. Moreover, some industries that relocated their p roduction base to Thailand in earlier 
period s started to export their products, including hard -disk drives. Growth in the  exports of services 
resumed slightly on account of an increase in foreign tourist  figures , especially Chinese and Indian 
tourists, par tly due to a low base effect in the previous year from the Phuket tour boat sinking  incident. 
In addition, the extended exemption of the visa -on-arrival (VOA) fees that would have ended in 
October 2019 would boost foreign tourist figures to some extent.  
Overall purchasing power slowed down, mainly on account of contraction in employment 
and income of non -farm households, with signs of employment reduction across all 
industries. Purchasing power of farm households affected by climate variability warranted 
monitoring . 
Moderating  economic growth resulted in a slowdown of overall household purchasing 
power , consistent  with employment reduction (Charts 2.1 and 2.2). Employment and income 
of non-farm households contracted from the same previous last year across al l sectors. In 
particular, normal -hour and over -time employment fell in export -related manufacturing sectors, 
including food, electronics, electrical appliances, and motor vehicles . Meanwhile, employment 
in tourism -related service sector d eclined in line wi th a slowdown in foreign tourist figures.  
Employment of farm households  contracted, partly as a result of drought in the first 
half of the year. However, farm income improved slightly supported by an increase in prices, 
especially sticky rice prices due t o lower  market  output as a result of drought . Prices of rubber 
and palm oil increased slightly from the previous year, while  agricultural output  was stable. 
Going forward, there remained a need to closely monitor farm household income and 
purchasing power.  This was due to recent climate variability that continued until the third quarter  
of this year , which caused drought and floods in agricultural areas, as well as devastated crop 
production .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Index, seasonally adjusted (3 -month moving average)
(Jan 2014 = 100 )
6090120150
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019JulReal total non-farm income Real farm income
Note : All indicators are calculated using real -term values to extract the effect of 
price factors. 
Sources : Bank of Thailand, Office of Agricultural Economics, National 
Statistical Office, Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.1 Overall purchasing power slowed down
Household income indicators
Aug 19
80859095100105110
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019Total Employment Non-Agricultural AgriculturalIndex, seasonally adjusted (3 -month moving average)
(Jan 2014 = 100 )
Source: National Statistical OfficeChart 2.2 Overall employment contracted. Employment of 
non-agricultural households fell mainly in export -related 
industries.
Employment indicators
Aug 19 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   12 Headline inflation declined in line with energy pri ces and core inflation.  
 Headline inflation averaged at 0.75 
percent in the first two months of the third 
quarter of 2019, down from 1.08 percent in 
the previous quarter  (Chart 2.3). The decrease  
was due to falling  energy prices, especially 
domestic retai l oil prices  which  fell in tandem 
with global crude oil prices , as well as the 
high-base effect. Meanwhile, fresh food 
prices continued to increase following higher 
prices of rice and fruit due to lower production.   
Core inflation averaged at 0.45 percent  
for the first two months of the third quarter of 
2019, down from 0.54 percent in the previous 
quarter . Food -in-core inflation fell (Chart 2.4) mainly in line with prices of seasoning and 
condiments.  Prepared food prices dropped slightly, reflecting low pa ss-through from higher 
costs of fresh food to prepared food prices. Meanwhile, core inflation in the non -food 
categories decreased slightly (Chart 2.5) in tandem with prices of medical and personal care, 
especially a fall in prices of personal care product s and subdued  house rents . In other 
categories, prices slowly increased following  econom ic slowdown,  and was influenced by 
changes in structural factors including the expansion of e -commerce, rising price competition, 
and lower production costs from higher  production efficiency (Table 2.1).  
Short -term (one -year ahead) inflation expectations according to the survey of 
businesses in August 2019 stood at 1.8 percent, a slight decline from 1.9 percent in the 
previous quarter. Inflation expectations of profess ional forecasters in June 2019 stood at 1.3 
percent, down from 1.5 percent in the previous quarter. Meanwhile, long -term (five -year 
ahead) inflation expectations according to the survey of professional forecasters in June 
2019 stood at 1.8 percent, unchang ed from the previous survey (October 2018). In addition, 
inflation expectations based on macro -finance term structure model with bond yield s and 
macroeconomic data  stabilized at 1.6 percent in the second quarter of 2019.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Fresh food (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
Note : Headline inflation for the first 8 months of 2019 recorded 0.87 percent 
( ) denotes share in inflation baskets
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.3 Headline inflation declined from the previous 
quarter mainly due to energy prices
Inflation target (2.5  1.5%)Headline inflation and inflation target
Jul-Aug
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Non-alcoholic beverages
Seasoning and condiments
Prepared foodPercentContribution* to core inflation in the food categoryChart 2.4 Core inflation in the food category (28 % of core 
inflation) declined mainly in line with seasoning and 
condiment prices
Note: *Contributions to core inflation decompose core inflation into an inflation 
rate of each component within the core inflation basket, weighted by its 
corresponding share in the basket. 
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandJul-Aug
-0.50.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Housing and furnishing
Transport and communication
Medical and personal care
Recreation and reading
Apparel and footwear
Tobacco and alcoholic beveragesPercentChart 2.5 Core inflation in the non -food category ( 72% of 
core inflation ) decreased in line with personal care price 
and house rent
Contribution* to core inflation in the non -food category
Note: *Contributions to core inflation decompose core inflation into an inflation 
rate of each component within the core inflation basket, weighted by its 
corresponding share in the basket.
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandJul-Aug 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   13  
 
 
 
 
Short -term money mark et rates, short -term government bond yields, and some types of 
bank lending rates declined in tandem with the policy rate. Long -term government bond 
yields fell rapidly driven by both domestic and external factors.  
In the third quarter of 2019, short -
term  money market rates and short -term 
government bond yields continuously 
declined in line with the policy rate and due 
to an increase in mutual funds’ short -term 
bond holdings after the withholding tax 
imposed on fixed -income fund became 
effective  on August 20, 2019 (Chart 2.6). 
Medium - and long -term government bond 
yields (Chart 2.7) continuously declined 
contributed by both domestic and external 
factors, including (1) policy rate cut by 0.25 
percent to 1.5 percent on August 7, 2019, (2) 
accelerated purchase s of long -term government  
bonds by mutual funds before the withholding  
tax levied on bond investment became 
effective, while some other investors changed  
strategies to increase long -term bond 
holdings , and (3) risk -off sentiment in global 
financial market s owing to trade tensions, 
global economic slowdown, as well as the 
likelihood of additional policy rate  cuts by 
central banks of advanced economies. 
Nevertheless, long -term government bond 
yields fell faster than short -term bonds, 
resulting in flatter yiel d curve relative to the 
end of previous quarter.   
 
 
 
Table 2.1 Inflation
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Jul - Aug
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) 1.07 0.64 1.31 1.47 0.84 0.74 1.08 0.75
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.71 0.61 0.76 0.78 0.71 0.62 0.54 0.45
Raw food -0.63 -1.04 -0.35 -0.82 -0.35 2.50 4.98 6.12
Energy 5.66 3.01 7.30 9.11 3.39 -0.79 -0.70 -4.24
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce2019
Annual percentage change 20172018
1.001.251.501.752.00
JanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr Jul% p.a.Policy Rate  O/N Interbank
1 month BIBOR 3 month Gov bond
6 month Gov bondChart 2.6 Short -term money market rates and short -term 
government bond yields declined in line with the policy rate
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) 
(data as of 24 Sep 2019 )2016 2017Short -term rates in financial markets
2018 2019        
            
Chart 2.7 Long -term government bond yields fell rapidly due 
to both domestic and external factors 
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) (data as of 24 Sep 2019 )2016 2017Government bond yields
20181.01.52.02.53.03.5
JanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr Jul1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.
    
2019    
    
             
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   14 Overall corporate bond yields 
declined in the third quarter of 2019 in 
tandem with the policy rate. Similarly, costs 
of financing through commercial banks  
became more accommodative . Most Thai 
commercial  banks reduced  their minimum 
retail rate s (MRR) and minimum over draft 
rates (MOR) in August 2019 (Chart 2.8). 
Meanwhile, the minimum loan rate (MLR) 
remained unchanged. The new loan rate 
(NLR)5/ was stable  at 4 percent in July 2019 
relative to  the previou s quarter  end.  
 
Financial conditions remained accommodative for business financing , especially in the 
bond market.   
Net issuance of corporate bonds  
in July and August 2019 continued to 
expand from the previous quarter, driven by 
businesses related to rea l estate. Most 
funding were for merger and acquisitoin 
(M&A) purposes and to refinance existing 
debt due to be repaid in the third quarter. 
These activities caused the outstanding 
stock of corporate bonds in August 2019 to 
expand by 17.2 percent from the s ame 
period last year (Chart 2.9). Equity financing  
increased from businesses in information 
and communication technology, real estate 
and construction, as well as services, mostly 
for investment in M& A. 
Nevertheless , private credit6   slowed down to 4.1 per cent (Chart 2.10) due to both 
business and household credit. Business  credit slowed down mainly in  manufacturing, 
commercial, and service  sectors  in line with private consumption and investment. Household  credit 
moderated in line with mortgage loans which had been front -loaded before the implementation  of 
the revised loan -to-value (LTV) ratio measure in April 2019 . Meanwhile, auto loan s started to 
decelerate  in line with  car sales.  
                                      
5/  NLR is the weighted average of interes t rates on new loan contracts extended by 14 Thai commercial banks 
each month. The loan contracts exclude consumer loans, credit card loans, repurchase agreements, bank 
guarantees, as well as loans extended to financial intermediaries, the public sector an d non -residents. The 
dataset covers loans with value of 20 million baht or higher for all loan types, purposes and maturities, and 
includes both secured and unsecured loans. Moreover, interest rates used in the calculation refer to the mid -rate 
between the  lowest and the highest rates in each loan contract.  
6/ Outstanding credit of other depository corporations (ODCs), namely commercial banks, specialized financial 
institutions, finance companies, savings cooperatives, and market mutual funds.  
Note: Average of 5 largest commercial banks ’ lending rates 
Source : Bank of Thailand ( data as of 24 Sep 2019 )7.08
6.287.48
6.868.08
6.94
0123456
56789
Jan JulJan JulJan JulJan JulJan JulJan JulJan JulPolicy rate (RHS) MLR MOR MRR
1.50% p.a.
2.75% p.a.Chart 2.8 Commercial banks reduced MRR and MOR in 
tandem with the policy rate, while MLR remained unchanged .
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019
Growth of outstanding corporate bonds and business credit
Percentage change from the same period last year
Note:  Business credit covers lending activities of Other Depository Corporation (ODCs) 
Sources: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) and Bank of Thailand010203040
Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Jan
2019Corporate bond Business credit* Total financing
3.16.817.2Chart  2.9 Overall business financing decelerated slightly
Aug19 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   15  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overall financial conditions remained accommodative  as reflec ted by a decline in real 
policy interest rate from the previous quarter after the policy rate cut. The rate  was still low relative 
to other emerging markets (Chart 2.11) , indicating  Thailand’s  relatively accommodative financial 
condition s. However, in the third quarter of 20197 , financial institutions were  expected to tighten 
credit standards for both loans to businesses and households, particularly (1) loans extended 
to export -related SMEs, which may be affected by external demand slowdown, and (2) credit  
card loans , as borrowers ’ credit quality had still not  improve d.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
7/ Results of  financial institutions’ survey as published in the Report on Credit Conditions Q /     and Outlook for 
Q3/2019  
Source:  Bank of ThailandChart  2.10 Private credit decelerated in both businesses and 
households
Growth of private credit
Note: 1) Private credit includes credit to other depository corporations (ODCs) namely 
commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, finance companies, saving 
cooperatives, and money market mutual funds
2) The data foroutstanding ODCs credit to businesses and households since 
January 2015 have been revised in line with improvements in the processing 
system for more accurate and comprehensive ODCs credit dataPercentage change from the same period last year
0246810
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019JulBusiness credit Household credit Total private credit
3.14.14.8Aug19
Chart  2.11  Thailand’s real policy rate   decreased due to the 
policy rate cut and remained at a low level compared with 
emerging market (EM) economies
Real policy rates*
Note : *Calculated from policy rate subtracted by one -year-ahead inflation  
expectation according to a survey by Consensus Economics 
(data as of 9 September 2019 )
Sources: Bloomberg,  Consensus Economics, calculation by Bank of Thailand-2024
US NZ JP UK EU ID IN PH MY TH KR%
Advanced economies Emerging markets 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   16 The baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar , while the nominal effective exchange rate 
(NEER) index continued to appreciate.  
In the third quarter of 2019, the baht appreciated aga inst the U.S. dollar relative to 
the end of the previous quarter (Chart 2.12). At the beginning of the quarter, the baht 
depreciated in line with  U.S. dollar appreciation  following better -than-expected U.S. economic 
data outturns and in response to measure s enhan cing the  surveillance of short -term capital 
inflows by the BOT8/. The measures  partly helped  to reduce  channels for speculation on baht 
appreciation and weaken ed the baht to some extent. However , since early August, the baht 
appreciated against the U.S. dollar once again,  driven by concerns over global economic 
slowdown and intensifying and prolonged trade tensions , particularly after the U.S. announced 
additional tariffs on Chin ese imports  and designated  China as  a currency manipulator.  Such 
concern s raised  the prices of safe -haven assets including gold, the yen , and the baht. On 
August 7, 2019, the policy rate cut by 0.25 percent to 1.5 percent helped to slow down the 
pace of the baht appreciation to some extent. At the end of the quarter, the baht strengthened 
in line with regional currencies following (1) less intensified trade tensions, (2) lower likelihood 
of no -deal Brexit, and (3) more accommodative stance of advanced economy central banks. 
As of September 24, 2019, the baht closed at 30.55 bah t to U.S. dollar, a 0.4 percent appreciation  
from the end of previous quarter . 
The nominal effective exchange rate  (NEER) index as of  September 24,  2019  stood 
at 126.1 , an appreciation of 2 percent from the end of the previous quarter , consistent  with 
baht appreciation against most trading partner currencies  except the rupiah (Chart 2.13). The 
preliminary real effective exchange rate (REER) at the end of August 2019  rose about 2 
percent from the previous quarter  end. Going forward, exchange rates would like ly remain 
volatile due to uncertainties surrounding trade tensions, monetary and fiscal policies of major 
advanced economies  and regional economies , as well as geo political risks . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
8/  On July 12, 2019, BOT announced measures to enhance surveillance of short -term capital inflows including (1) a 
reduction of limit on outstan ding balance of Non -Resident Baht Account (NRBA) and Non -Resident Baht Account for 
Securities (NRBS) from 300 to 200 million baht per non -resident and (2) a requirement to report ultimate beneficiary 
owner (UBO) to enhance BOT’s surveillance of non -residen t investment behaviors.  
-4%-3%-2%-1%0%1%
INR
CNY
EUR
KRW
AUD
GBP
PHP
SGD
MYR
JPY
TWD
THB
IDRPercentChart 2.13 The baht appreciated against the U.S . dollar, 
while regional currencies depreciated (24 Sep 19 compared 
to the end of Jun 19)
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollar
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 24 September 2019 )
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120125130
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
JulREER
USDTHB (RHS)DXYNEER
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 24 September 2019 )2015 2016 2017 2018Appreciation
Chart 2.12 The baht appreciated against the U.S . dollar
USDTHB, NEER, DXY
Baht per U.S. dollar Index
2019 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   17 There remained pockets of risks in the financial system that could  pose vulnerabilities to 
financial stability in the future. These risks included (1) weakening ability of households to 
cope with negative income shocks, (2) rising risks of oversupply in the real estate market 
following domestic and foreign demand slowdow n, and (3) the search -for-yield behavior 
which could lead to underpricing of risks, particularly among saving cooperatives and large 
corporates.  
Thailand’s financial stability remained sound overall, particularly with regard to external 
stability, as indic ated by the country’s high level of international reserves and sustained current 
account surpluses . Meanwhile,  the low external debt to GDP ratio provided cushion  for the 
Thai economy against risks of volatile global financial markets. Financial institutio ns maintained  
robust financial positions, reflected by high levels of capital buffers , providing  cushion against 
risks of deteriorati ng credit quality. Nevertheless, there remained other risks that warranted  
continued  monitoring:  
1. Weakening ability of h ouseholds  to cope with negative income shocks. 
Household debt to GDP ratio in the first quarter of 2019  increased  from the previous quarter 
to 78.7 percent (Chart 2.14). In addition, household income was expected to slow down in line 
with the econom y. These raised  household  vulnerab ility and could lead to defaults . Although 
the NPL ratio of consumer loans in the second quarter of 2019  was stable at 2.7 percent, there 
were signs of increasing  special mention loan (SM) ratio, which reflected  the inability to service 
consumer loans for 1-3 months. The SM ratio increased across  all loan types, particularly auto 
loans. Going forward, some household loans were expected to slow down, especially 
mortgage loans due to frontloading effect prior to the implementation o f the revised LTV 
measure . Auto loans tended to moderate  in line with car and motorcycle sales. However, 
certain types of loans which households 
use for enhancing liquidity were expected  
to accelerate, such as home -for-cash 
loans, car -for-cash loans, as we ll as credit 
card and cash card loans. Nevertheless , 
issues that warranted close monitoring in 
the period ahead included (1) severity and 
length of negative economic shocks,  such 
as impacts from trade protectionist 
measures between the U.S. and China, 
which would affect economic growth and 
household income, and ( ) households’  
ability to maintain liquidity during the 
economic downturn .    
Financial position of businesses became more vulnerable , especially small 
enterprises . This w as reflected by sustained n egative  operating profit margin (OPM) and 
interest coverage ratio (ICR) of some small businesses9  . Furthermore, t he NPL ratio of 
commercial banks’ SME loan s in the second quarter of 2019  remained elevated  at 4.5 
percent.10/  
                                      
9/  As reflected by the ICR and OPM of 25th -percentile small -sized listed companies which have been in the 
negative territory  
10/  NPL ratio of SME loan s from 2013 to date averaged at 3.9 percent.  
Chart  2.14 The ratio of household debt to GDP exhibited 
a rising sign 
Private debt to GDP
5560657075808590
507090110130150170190
2011Q1 2012 Q12013 Q12014Q1 2015 Q12016Q1 2017 Q12018 Q12019Q1Private debt (excluding financial institutions)
Corporate debt (RHS)
Household debt (RHS)% of GDP % of GDP
Source: Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   18 2. Risks of oversupply in the real estate market increased. This was reflected by  rising 
oversupply and longer ‘time to go ’ (in Bangkok and vicinities), particularly for condominium where 
unsold units increased 8.5 percent from the end of 2018 and time -to-go rose from 18 to 21 months. 
When  considering pric es and area s, condominiums with higher unsold units and longer ‘time to 
go’ were those  above 5 million baht (Chart 2.15) and those near the  MRT Blue Line (Bang Sue – 
Tha Phra) (Chart 2.16) , following  increased number of project launche s. This w as reflected by 
expanding  number of newly open residential units (in Bangkok and vicinities) during the first seven 
months of 2019 , which grew 19.5 percent from the same period last yea r. Moreover, there 
remained a large number of new projects in developers’ pipeline11 , despite the number falling 
from announcements  at the beginning of the year. Th ese suggested that launches  of 
condominium project s during the second half of 2019 may not be consistent with domestic 
and external demand  slowdown , as we ll as with the  revised LTV measure. Supply that did not 
match demand in the real estate market might increase liquidity risks of developers going 
forward. (Box:  Adjustments in the real estate sector following the revision of the loan -to-value 
(LTV) measure ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
11/  Data from 10 large developers l isted in the Stock Exchange of Thailand  
051015202530
051015202530
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
Accumulated supply Time to go (RHS)Chart  2.15 The oversupply and ‘time-to-go’ of condominium in Bangkok and 
vicinities increased, especially those with value exceeding 5 million baht
Source: AREA and calculated by Bank of ThailandCondominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinity and ‘Time to go ’ by price ranges
Thousands of units Months
1-2 mio THB 2-3 mio THB 3-5 mio THB 5-10 mio THB >10 mio THB
01020304050
02468101214
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
    
    
    
2562H1
Oversupply Time to go (RHS)
Source: AREA, calculations by the Bank of ThailandGreen Line 
(Bearing –
Samut Prakan )Blue Line
(Bang Sue –
Tha Phra )Blue Line
(Hua Lamphong –
Bang Khae )Green Line
(Mo Chit –
Khu Khot)Purple LineChart  2.16 The oversupply and ‘time -to-go’ of condominium around the MRT 
Blue Line (Bang Sue –Tha Phra) increased 
Accumulated condominium oversupply and ‘time-to-go’, by skytrain lines
Thousands of units Months 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   19 3. Continued search -for-yield behavior under prolonged  low interest rates could 
lead to underpricing of risks. Although systemic risk s to financial stability remained stable 
overall, there remained risks that warranted  monitor ing. First, search -for-yield behavior of 
saving cooperatives  continued,  despite the slower  expansion  in assets  in line with deposits 
and equities. Saving cooperatives increasingly raised funds through  deposits and reduced  
their borrowing (Chart 2.17) after regulatory  authorities cooperated in revising regulations to 
enhance supervisory standard s. However, search -for-yield behavior warranted monitoring, 
particularly  the rise in  corporate bond holding s of some large saving cooperatives. Moreover, 
overall systemic risk i n the saving cooperatives system  increased  from higher  borrowings 
between  saving cooperatives. Second, some large corporates accelerated their fundraising 
under prolonged low interest rates. These corporates had high interconnectedness with the 
financial s ystem, especially through bond and equity financing, which could lead to 
concentration risk s in the financial market s. Third, offshore investment through foreign 
investment funds (FIF) continued to expand . The  risk of FIF investments  being concentrated 
in only a few countries  warranted  monitor ing.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.17 Assets of saving cooperatives expanded at a slower 
rate, but there remained pressure to search for higher yield 
% YoY
Note: Saving cooperatives were subjected to tighter regulation by government 
since H2/2017
Source: Cooperative Auditing Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to growth of savings cooperatives ’ assets
051015
Dec-14Dec-15Dec-16Dec-17Mar-18Jun-18Sep-18Dec-18Mar-19Jun-19Jul-19
Loans to other cooperatives Secutities Other Than Shares
Shares and Other Equity Currency and Deposits
Loans to members Total Assets 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   20 Adjustment s in the real estate sector  
following the revision o f the loan -to-value (LTV)  measure  
During 2017 – 2018, there was a build -up of vulnerabilities the real estate sector, particularl y in 
the mortgage loan market . This was due to higher competition in loan extension among financial 
institutions, resulting in deteriorating credit underwriting standards. In some cases, there were no 
requirements for borrowers to make down payment or to h ave savings before acquiring loans. In other 
cases, financial institutions extended loans with value exceeding collateral value. Moreover, there were 
speculative signs from real estate purchases,  expecting returns without real demand in the property. 
Prope rty was instead rented or invested with an expectation of future price increases. Speculative 
demand from these buyers caused real estate prices to rise faster than growth of average household 
income. Thus, buyers with real demand had to buy real estate at  higher prices. Meanwhile, real estate 
developers continued to raise funds in order to expand businesses. In addition, excessive competition 
among financial institutions and developers might accelerate speculation in the real estate sector and 
increase ris ks to macroeconomic and financial stability in the future.  
The Bank of Thailand (BOT) recognized the importance of such issue since the real estate sector 
was one of the root causes of financial crises around the world. The BOT thus implemented a preventiv e 
measure to address systemic risks through the revision of the loan -to-value (LTV) measure. Key 
revision12/ included a more tightened ceiling of the loan -to-value (LTV) ratio for second and subsequent 
mortgage contracts, or for residential units with value  exceeding 10 million baht. The revised measure 
became effective on 1 April 2019. This measure aims to enhance credit underwriting standards of 
financial institutions in order to emphasize lending to residential buyers with real demand, as well as to 
addre ss over -indebtedness issue and speculation in the real estate market. Therefore, buyers with real 
demand would be able to buy residential units at more affordable prices.  
After the implementation of LTV measure, the real estate market was affected from a 
slowdown in external demand and softening domestic economy. The BOT had been closely monitoring  
adjustments of related parties and found that households, financial institutions, and real estate 
developers had adapted themselves in accordance with the objec tives of this measure as follows.  
 (1) Credit underwriting standards among financial institutions became more 
tightened, particularly mortgage contracts on second and subsequent residential units 
acquired by the same purchaser. However, there was a limi ted impact on first contract 
borrowers. This was reflected by a decline in average LTV ratio of mortgage contracts on second 
and subsequent residential units from 87.8 percent in the first quarter to 83.1 percent in the second 
quarter of 2019, while the ra tio of first mortgage contracts remained at 88.5 percent (Chart 1). 
Moreover, the repayment period started to taper off. The average loan -to-income ratio was largely 
stable. (Chart 2)   
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
12/ For more detail,  https://www.bot.or.th/Thai/FinancialInstitutions/Publications/Pages/HousingLoan_No tification.aspx  
%Chart 1 Average loan -to-value (LTV) ratio in the banking system
88.988.5
87.8
83.1
65707580859095100
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019First contract Second and subsequent contract
Note: Calculated from the database on loans that use new housing as collateral
Source: Bank of Thailand
Chart 2 Average loan -to-income (LTI) ratio and repayment period 
under contract of the banking system
4.14.1325
322
280295310325340
23456
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Loan-to-income (LTI)
Repayment period under contract (RHS)Months Times
Note: Calculated from the database on loans that use new housing as collateral
Source: Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   21  (2) Speculation in the real estate market  
was subdued, as refl ected by a contraction in a 
number of new mortgage contracts during the 
first half of 2019. In particular, a number of new 
mortgage loans on second and subsequent 
contracts, especially for high -rise residential units,  
fell 25.0 percent. (Table 1) However, a number 
of first mortgage contracts still expanded 14.0 
percent . Overall, a number of new mortgage  
contracts decelerated from a high expansion of 
27.9 percent in the first quarter, before the LTV 
measure took effect, to only 2.4 percent in the 
second quar ter following a sharp decline of 39.0 
percent for mortgage loans on second and 
subsequent contracts.  
(3) Residential prices moderated (Chart 
3), which partly helped residential  buyers 
with real demand to purchase  at a more 
reasonable price. Credit underw riting standards  
among financial institutions were more tightened , 
resulting  in demand slowdown . This could partly 
slow the pace of residential price increases, 
particularly condominium, whose prices had 
accelerated significantly in the previous period 
due to speculation.  
(4) Developers adjusted in response 
to demand slowdown  by focusing on sales 
promotion strategies for completed projects in 
order to release high stock of unsold units, as 
well as focusing on launches of low -rise 
residential projects which had shorter time -to-
go than condominium projects to realize  
income faster. However, there remained a 
need to closely monitor issues on an oversupply  
in the period ahead despite some adjustments 
among developers. This was because developers  
listed in the st ock exchange set a target to 
launch a large number of new projects in 2019, both low -rise and high -rise projects, although the 
figures were somewhat lower than original target set at the beginning of the year. Also, funding 
through pre -finance and the bond  market was expected to rise. Nevertheless , if sales from new 
project launches were not as expected by developers, especially given the softening  outlook of 
both domestic and external demand, this might increase risks of oversupply and pose liquidity risk 
for developers going forward. (Chart 4)  
Following the implementation of the LTV measure, the BOT had been monitoring the situation 
and receiving opinions and suggestions from all related parties. The BOT considered a relaxation of 
this measure in relation to co -borrowers for those  who were not registered as owners of the property . 
This was aimed  to mitigate  the impact on co -borrowers , most of whom were not high income earners 
Index (2009 = 100)
142.9154.7177.0
168.1
100120140160180200
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Detached house with land Townhouse with land
Condominium LandChart 3 Real estate price indices for real estates in Bangkok and 
the vicinities
Note: Indices are calculated based on database on commercial banks’ new loans 
Source: Bank of Thailand
02468101214161820
020406080100120140
    
    
    
Jan-17
Jan-18
Jan-19
Jul-19
Low-rise Condominium Total (RHS) AverageJul 19 = 10.1Monthly data   RHS  
Average 2013  –2017  = 9.5
Source   AREA, calculation by Bank of Thailand  Chart 4 New residential units launched in Bangkok and vicinities
Billion units  
(seasonally adjusted, 3mm average) Billion units  
Table 1Growth of new mortgage loan accounts extended
by financial institutions
%YoY
New mortgage loan accounts
Jan –Jun 19 14.2
1stcontract* 14.0
-low  rise* 17.9
-high-rise* 5.8
2ndand subsequent contract* -13.0
-low  rise* 3.7
-high-rise* -25.0
Jan –Mar 19 (Q1/2019) 27.9
Apr –Jun 19 (Q2/2019) 2.4
1stcontract* -2.9
2ndand subsequent contract -39.0
Note: Calculated from the database on loans that use new housing as   
collateral
Source: Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   22 and could become potential demand for residential  units13/, to acquire mortgage lo ans in a more 
appropriate practice. That is, if borrowers were not registered as owners of the property, they would be 
treated  as if they were not borrowers on that contract. This was because they have no real intention 
to buy the residential property. Co -borrowers might only want to support main borrowers, who were 
mostly their family members, to acquire mortgage loans from financial institutions. Nevertheless , 
there remained a need to continue monitoring impacts of the revised LTV measure, as well as 
adjustments in the real estate sector and oversupply going forward.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
13/ Co-borrowers applying for new mortgage loans under the first contract accounts for 26 percent, most of which 
are contracts for low -rise houses with value around 2 -5 million baht.        
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   23  2.2 Outlook for the Thai Economy  
The Committee  assessed that  the Thai economy would  expand at a slower pace 
and below potential. The growth forecasts for 2019 and 202 0 were 2.8 and 3.3 percent  
respectively, lower than the assessment in the previous Monetary Policy Report  due to 
slowdown in both external and domestic demand. Exports of goods and services were 
expected to exhibit slower growth than previously estimated d ue to further slowdown in global 
trade volume and trading partner economies. In addition, falling merchandise exports began 
to impact private consumption and private investment. Meanwhile, public expenditure would 
grow at a slower rate owing partly to dela ys in state -owned enterprise investment projects. 
The annual average s of headline inflation w ere projected to be lower particularly in 2019 , due 
to falling energy prices  in line with global economic slowdown , as well as lower core inflation 
in line with de mand -pull pressures. Nonetheless, headline inflation was projected to increase 
toward the inflation target in 2020 in tandem  with the economic outlook and cost -push 
pressures from the prospects of minimum wage increase next year.                    
 
Summa ry of the key forecast assumptions  
 Trading partner  economies  were projected to slow down throughout the forecast horizon due 
to (1) outturns in the second quarter and indicators in the third quarter of 2019 of many 
economies being lower -than-expected and ( 2) intensifying and prolonged international trade 
tensions, as well as escalating  geopolitical risks. Such risks posed  greater impact s on global 
trade volume, investment and production in major advanced economies and would have 
spillover effects on regiona l economies.  
 The federal funds rate declined in September 2019 to 1.75 -2.00 percent. One additional cut 
was expected this year. In total, there would be three rate cuts in 2019 and one more rate cut 
in 2020, compared with the previous assessment of two pol icy rate cuts in 2019 and one 
additional rate cut in 2020.  
 Regional currencies (excluding the Chinese yuan) in the third quarter of 2019 depreciated due 
to intensifying trade  tensions after the U.S. and China  mutually  raised import tariffs. 
Nonetheless, r egional currencies would gradually appreciate in the period ahead in tandem 
with the U.S. policy rate.  
 Dubai crude oil price s were revised down throughout the forecast horizon mainly due to the 
global econom ic outlook, despite increased prices  in the shor t term from reduced  supply 
following  an attack on oil facilities  in Saudi Arabia.  
Percent 2018 * 2019 2020
GDP growth 4.1 2.8 (3.3) 3.3 (3.7)
Headline inflation 1.1 0.8 (1.0) 1.0 (1.0)
Core inflation 0.7 0.6 (0.7) 0.9 (0.9)
Note: * Outturn 
( ) Monetary Policy Report June 2019         
Sources: NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimatesTable 2.2 Forecast summary 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   24   Farm income, excluding government support measures , was expected to expand in 2019 at a 
similar pace as previously estimated. The drought situation in the Northeast would lead to 
slower agricultural output growth and push up  prices, especially glutinous rice and jasmine rice. 
In 2020, farm income was projected to decline due to the high base effect of agricultural prices 
this year. However, government support measures , including the project to mitigate the i mpact 
of delayed  rainfall in 2019 and income guarantee scheme  for farmers,  would partly s hore up 
farm income.  
 Public spending at current prices were revised down throughout the forecast horizon mainly 
due to delays in state -owned enterprise investment. Moreover, there was a change in budget 
structure of the Annual Budget Expenditure Act, B.E. 2563 (A.D. 2020) that led to a smaller 
proportion of capital expenditure and a larger portion of current expenditure.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The value of merchandise exports  was projected to contract in line with slowdown in trading 
partner economies and global trade volume.   
The value of Thai merchandise exports in 2019 was expected to contract mainly 
due to the decline in export volume following intensifying and prolonged trade tensions , which 
led to (1) slowdown in global trade  volume in line with  economic activities , as well as  weaker 
consumption and investment  confidence of the private sector  in many countries, and (2) slow 
recovery of the electronics cycle. Meanwhile, e xport prices were also expected to decline in 
line with global crude oil prices. Moreover, the value of Thai merchandise exports (excluding 
gold) to most markets were expected  to contract, except for the U.S. where Thai products 
would substitute Chin ese im ports  (Chart 2.18). In addition, i ntensified trade tension s during 
the third quarter led to gold price surge  and accelerate d volume of gold export s, partially 
offsetting the contraction of the overall export value.  
Nevertheless , merchandise exports in the  period ahead were expected to recover , 
albeit gradually,  thanks to the relocation of production base to Thailand in previous periods 
(Chart 2.19). Exports of hard disk drives  started to show signs of improvement in the third 
quarter. Moreover, the U.S. wo uld import more categories of Thai exports to substitute 
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2018* 2019 2020
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 69.6 64.0 (65.9) 63.0 (65.0)
Farm income (% YoY) 1.3 2.0 (2.0) -1.0 (-0.4)
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,637 2,762 (2,763) 2,929 (2,909)
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/962 998 (1,011) 1,080 (1,103)
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 2.375 1.625 (2.125) 1.375 (1.875)
Trading partners ’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.6 2.8 (3.0) 2.7 (2.8)
Regional currencies (excl. China ) vis-à-vis the U .S. dollar (index )3/153.8 157.3 (156.8) 158.0 (156.9)
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand 's total exports
3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
               * Outturns
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report June 2019         Annual percentage change 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   25 Chinese imports including refrigerators and apparels, compared to the previous periods when 
only exports in  auto  tyres increased . The Committee project ed merchandise ex ports value 
to contract by  1.0 percent in 2019 and expand by  1.7 percent in 2020, lower than the 
estimates in the previous Monetary Policy Report .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-200204060
Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18 Jan-19ASEAN (27.1) US (11.1)* China (12.0) EU (9.9) Japan (9.9)*%YOY (  month moving average ) 
Aug 19Chart  2.18 Merchandise exports contracted inalmost all 
export destinations
Value of Thai merchandise exports (excl. gold), by export destination
Note: Number in ( ) represents the share of total exports in 2018
* Excluding exports of munitions for Cobra Gold Military Exercise
Source: Customs Department, calculations by Bank of Thailand
406080100120140160
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18 Jan-19Electrical appliances (5.3) Vehicle parts (6.7)
Electronics (14.8) Petroleum-related (13.1)
Agro-manu (12.3)Aug 19Value of merchandise exports, by product category
Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)
Note: Number in () denotes share of total exports in 2018
Source: Customs Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.19 Thai merchandise exports continued to contract in 
various product categories, except exports of auto parts and 
electrical appliances which benefited from redirected orders 
and relocation of production base 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   26 Exports of services were projected to decelerate in line with the global economic out look. 
 Exports of services were projected to decelerate as tourism receipts stalled due to 
(1) lower  foreign tourist  figures across most  nationalities  (Chart 2.20) and  (2) lower spending 
per person amid global economic slowdown. However, government measur es to boost 
tourism through extending the exemption of visa -on-arrival (VOA) fees from the end of October 
2019 to April 2020 would attract some more foreign tourists. The projected foreign tourist  
figures  were  revised down to 39.7 in 2019 and 41.2 million in 2020, slightly lower than 
the estimates in the previous Monetary Policy Report .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The current account was projected to record 34.2 and 30.4 billion U.S. dollar 
surplus in 2019 and 2020  respectively , higher than the projection in the previous 
Monetary Policy Report  due to (1) increased gold exports and (2) import slowdown in line 
with outlook of private investment and the imports of raw materials for export -oriented production .  
Private consumption was expected to be weighed down by weakened pur chasing power, 
despite a transient support by  government stimulus measures.   
Private consumption in 2019 was projected to expand as previously estimated , 
driven by additional government stimulus measures in the latter half of the year. These 
included meas ures to boost domestic tourism, to support low -income earners through higher 
cash limit of  the social welfare card scheme , and to support farm income. However, factors 
supporting overall purchasing power weakened , including both  non-farm income and 
consume r confidence. In 2020, private consumption was projected to decelerate more 
than previously estimated.  Purchasing power would remain weak because employment and 
working hours especially in export -related manufacturing sectors would likely face greater 
impa cts from export contraction, potentially weighing down on non -farm income  further. Farm 
income next year was projected to contract  from the high base effect of agricultural prices due 
to natural disasters this year. In addition, elevated household debt may  exert additional 
pressures on private consumption, especially when household income faded. This may worsen  
Chart  2.20 Foreign tourist figures were expected to decline in 
many regions
Tourist figures, by nationalities
50100150200
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019JulTotal
China (28%)
Malaysia (11%)
Asia ex. China and Malaysia (30%)
Europe ex. Russia (14%)
Russia (4%)Seasonally adjusted 
index (Jan 2015 = 100)
Note: Number in () denotes share of total tourists in 2018
Source: Ministry of Tourism and Sports, calculations by Bank of ThailandAug 19 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   27 debt serviceability of households and lead to tightening credit standards of financial institutions , 
consequently weigh ing on private consumption in  the period ahead.  
Private investment would expand at lower rate than previously assessed, but remained on a 
positive outlook for next year .  
Private investment would expand at lower rate than previously assessed  as export 
contraction and domestic demand slowdown began to exert impact on investment  more apparently, 
as reflected by lower profitability and investment confidence of businesses. However, government  
measures to boost investment, including low lending rates  for SMEs and the Thailand Plus Package,  
would help shore up investment to some extent. Looking forward, private investment was expected 
to benefit from additional relocation of production base to Thailand as businesses seek to avoid the 
impact of intensifying and prolonged trade tensions. Moreo ver, investor confidence was expected to 
pick up due to continued infrastructure investment in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC) as well 
as the public -private partnership (PPP) projects, as seen through continued investment  promotion  
applications to the Board of Investment (BOI) and land sales for industrial purposes in the EEC.  
Public spending would support economic growth to a lesser extent than previously assessed.  
Public spending was expected to expand less than expected due to delays in state -
owned e nterprise investment projects , including the high -speed rail  project  between Bangkok and 
Nakhon Ratchasima  which experienced a delay in the construction bid. Moreover, there was a 
change in budget structure of the Annual Budget Expenditure Act B.E. 2563 ( A.D. 2020) that led to 
a smaller proportion of capital structure and a larger proportion of current expenditure. Public 
investment would subsequently decelerate, while government consumption would increase in 2020.  
Projections of headline and core inflatio n were revised down in line with the negative output 
gap throughout the forecast horizon.  
Headline inflation projection for 
2019 was expected to be below the 
inflation target and lower than the 
assessment in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report  due to grea ter-than-expected 
decline in  energy prices between June  and 
August 2019 . Energy prices would decrease  
in line with global crude oil prices. Core 
inflation would soften in line with lower 
demand -pull inflationary pressures, reflected  
by the lower -than-expec ted and negative 
output gap throughout the forecast horizon  
(Chart 2.21). However, fresh food prices, such as fruit and glutinous rice, were expected to 
rise in the short term due to limited market supply , and would support headline inflation to 
some exten t. Moreover, c ore inflation was projected to increase in the period ahead in line 
with the economic outlook and the increased cost -push inflationary pressures in 2020 from 
the prospects of minimum wage increase. Thus, the Committee projected headline 
inflation to average 0.8 and 1.0 percent in 2019 and 2020 , and core inflation to average 
0.6 and 0.9 percent in 2019 and 2020 , respectively.  
-4-2024
                                    Jun-19 Sep-19%Chart 2.21 Output gap 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   28 Growth and inflation projections were subject to greater downside risks.  
Under the Committee’s assessment,  growth and  inflation projections were subject to 
greater downside risks than the assessment in the previous Monetary Policy Report , as 
shown by the fan chart that tilted more downward (Chart 2.22) , mainly due to external risks. The 
possibilities that the Thai econom y would underperform the baseline projection  would be 
due to ( 1) slower -than-expected trading partner economies and global trade volume as a result of 
intensifying trade tensions and impinging on Thai merchandise exports more than expected, ( 2) 
higher -than-expected increase in crude oil prices due to escalating tensions in the Middle East, 
(3) potential implementation delay in government policy and lack of continuation from the previous 
government, and ( 4) larger -than-expected household income shocks imping ing on private 
consumption as a result of multiple factors including more -than-expected impact of exports on 
employment as well as the impact of intensifying natural disasters on farm income. On the other 
hand, there were  possibilities that the Thai econom y would outperform the baseline 
projection attributable to  (1) higher -than-expected growth of trading partner economies if there 
were additional government stimulus measures, improvements in trade tensions, or faster -than-
expected recovery in the electroni cs cycle, and ( 2) higher -than-expected domestic demand as a 
result of public infrastructure investment and PPP projects, which may boost private investment, 
as well as the potential implementation of additional government stimulus measures such as 
investme nt promotion policy. Meanwhile, downside risks to headline and core inflation 
projections remained (Chart 2.23 and 2.24) , in line with risks to the growth projection.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Chart 2.22 Growth forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-20246810
-20246810
                            % YoY
-3-2-1012345
-3-2-1012345
                            % YoYChart 2.23 Headline inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distributionHeadline inflation target 2.5  1.5% 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   29  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chart 2.24 Core inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-10123
-10123
                            % YoY
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2018* 2019 2020
GDP growth 4.1 2.8 (3.3) 3.3 (3.7)
Domestic demand 3.9 3.3 (3.5) 3.7 (3.9)
     Private consumption 4.6 3.8 (3.8) 3.1 (3.4)
     Private investment 3.9 3.0 (3.8) 4.8 (5.5)
     Government consumption 1.8 2.3 (2.2) 3.4 (2.6)
     Public investment 3.3 2.5 (3.8) 6.3 (7.2)
Exports of goods and services 4.2 -2.3 (0.3) 2.3 (3.9)
Imports of goods and services 8.6 -2.6 (0.7) 2.9 (4.5)
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 28.5 34.2 (29.1) 30.4 (26.3)
Value of merchandise exports 7.5 -1.0 (0.0) 1.7 (4.3)
Value of merchandise imports 13.7 -3.6. (-0.3) 3.5 (4.8)
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 38.2 39.7 (39.9) 41.2 (41.3)
Note: *Outturns
( ) Monetary Policy Report June 2019         Annual percentage change 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   30 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
Accommodativ e monetary policy stance should support the rise of headline infl ation 
toward target and contribute to the continuation of economic growth amid heightened 
external  uncertainties. With regard to addressing financial stability  risks, given softening 
growth  outlook and prolonged low interest rates  in the period ahead , microprudential and 
macroprudential measures should be appropriately combined and targeted.  
 At the meeting  on 7 August 2019, the Committee voted 5 to 2 to cut the policy 
rate by 0.25 percentage point from 1.75 to 1.50 percent. Two members voted to maintain 
the policy rate at 1.75 percent. The Committee assessed that the Thai economy would 
expand at a lower rate than previously assessed and below potential due to a contraction in 
exports, which st arted to affect domestic demand. Headline i nflation was projected to be lower 
than the lower bound of the inflation target. Financial stability risks had already been 
addressed to some extent, although there remained pockets of risks that warranted 
monitor ing. Thus, most members viewed that a more accommodative monetary policy stance 
would contribute to the continuation of economic growth and should support the rise of 
headline inflation toward target. Nevertheless, two members viewed that the policy rate c ut 
under the already accommodative monetary policy might not lend additional support to 
economic growth, compared with potentially increased financial stability risks. Moreover, there 
remained a need to preserve policy space. Moreover, the Committee would closely monitor 
developments of exchange rates and capital flows , as well as assess the necessity of 
additional appropriate measures.  
At the meeting  on 25 September 2019, the Committee voted unanimously to 
maintain the policy rate at 1.50 percent. The Com mittee assessed that projection s of the 
Thai economy  and inflation, as well as  financial stability were  in line with  Committee’s  previous 
assessment  in August. The Committee viewed that accommodative monetary policy stance 
would contribute to the continuat ion of economic growth and should support the rise of 
headline inflation toward target. Also, the Committee would closely monitor developments of 
exchange rates and capital flows, and would consider implementing additional appropriate 
measures if necessary . In addition, the Committee viewed that microprudential and 
macroprudential measures should be appropriately combined and targeted to ensure financial 
stability.  
 Looking ahead , the Committee would be data -dependent by closely monitoring the 
developments  of the outlook for growth, inflation, and financial stability, together with 
associated risks, especially the impacts from trade tensions, in deliberating appropriate 
monetary policy going forward. The Committee would stand ready to use policy tools as 
appropriate. Nevertheless, the Thai economy continued to face structural problems, which 
would affect competitiveness and growth outlook going forward. This should be firmly 
addressed by all related parties.  
In determining the most appropriate course of mone tary policy, the Committee placed 
great emphasis on economic growth, development of headline inflation, and preserving 
financial stability. Details on the key assessment are as follows.   
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   31 The Thai economy and inflation were expected to expand at a lower rat e than previously 
assessed.   
Developments of economic indicators in the third quarter of 2019 reflected  that 
economic activities related to merchandise exports, manufacturing, and investment would slow 
down more than previously assessed. The spillovers be gan to be observed on private 
consumption and employment in export -related manufacturing sectors. Furthermore, the 
output gap was expected to be more negative. That is,  actual output would remain below 
potential throughout the forecast horizon, reflecting a decline in demand -pull inflationary 
pressures. This led in part to a downward revision of headline inflation forecast in 2019, which 
would be below the lower bound of the inflation target. Looking ahead, the Thai economy would 
still face  downside risks f rom trade tensions and geopolitical risks, which were highly likely to 
be prolonged and intensify, causing adverse impacts on the global economy and trade volume. 
Meanwhile, public expenditure  would  not lend full support to economic growth due to delay ed 
enactment of the Annual Budget Expenditure Act  B.E. 2563 (A.D. 2020), as well as the 
postponement of some state -owned enterprise investment projects, despite additional 
government stimulus measure s in the second half of this  year. Against this backdrop,  the 
Committee viewed that a more accommodative monetary policy stance should 
contribute to the continuation of economic growth and support the rise of headline 
inflation toward target, allowing both public and private sectors time to adjust 
themselves to cope  with periods of slower economic growth.    
The Committee was concern ed and closely monitored impact  of the baht on the economy.  
Over recent period s, the baht continued to strengthen  mainly  on account of  a large current 
account surplus and foreign direct i nvestment (FDI) inflows. However, there were net capital outflows  
from the bond and stock markets in the recent period , partly as a result of the Bank of Thailand ’s 
measures to enhance surveillances of short-term capital flows in order to  limit channels fo r speculation 
on the baht  appreciation. The Committee assessed that a continued appreciation of the  baht could have 
a more pronounced impact on exports and the overall econom y in the period of  slower trading partners ’ 
growth and stronger international comp etition. Signs of such impact  started to be seen  on corporate 
profitability  and liquidity, debt serviceability , and a reduction in overtime employment in export -related 
manufacturing sectors . The Committee remained concerned about  the baht appreciation aga inst 
trading  partner  currencies  and saw a need to closely monitor  impacts  from developments  of 
exchange  rates  and  capital  flows . The Committee  would consider implementing additional 
measures at an appropriate tim ing  if necessary.  The  additional measures  include d (1) those under 
the Bank of Thailand ’s authority , such as continued relaxation of capital outflow regulations t o 
encourage Thai residents to increase their portfolio investment abroad , and (2) those  require d 
collaboration with other organizations , including efforts to stimulate investment to reduce elevated 
current account surplus.  
Some financial stability risks abated, but there remained  pockets of risks that warranted 
monitoring and should be addressed with various  targeted measures.  
The Committee assessed that financial stability remained sound  overall . However, there 
remained a need to monitor risks that could pose  vulnerabilities to financial stability  in the future. 
An assessment of  various types of financial stability indicators  such as real es tate price indices , 
components of household debt, stress testing, scenario planning, and financial cycle  (Box: 
Financial cycle and its policy implications)  revealed that some financial stability risks abated ,  
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   32 following the implementation of the  LTV measure  in an earlier period and softening economic 
growth outlook . This was reflected by a slower growth in  mortgage loan s in the second quarter 
of 2019, more tighte ning lending  standards among financial institutions, postponement of new 
project  launches  by some  real estate developers amid slower economic growth, and declining 
residential prices. Nevertheless, some risks had not improved . These included, risks from 
vulnerabilit ies to income shocks during periods of economic slowdown , such as  risks arising from 
debt service ability of households and SMEs with weak financial position , and risks in the  real 
estate sector due to  oversupply in certain  areas , with additional impact on developers due to 
domestic and external  demand slowdown. Second , the search -for-yield b ehavior in the 
prolonged low interest rate environment , especially related to  saving cooperatives and leverage s 
of large corporates , could lead to underpricing of risks. This also included potential changes in 
household saving behavior and debt accumulatio n given  low interest rate environment.  
 The Committee expressed concerns about  elevated household debt that was 
expected to rise further , as it c ould lead to a build -up of vulnerabilities among households. 
Thus, the Committee would closely monitor the deb t service ratio (DSR) data in accordance with the 
standardized calculation methodology agreed between the Bank of Thailand and commercial banks, 
where financial institutions would start reporting the data in  the forth quarter of 2019. In addition, the 
Comm ittee would monitor  debt serviceability of households and SMEs, which was expected to  
deteriorate during economic slowdown  and could  affect their income. Nevertheless, the Committee 
viewed that address ing household debt would require understanding of different groups  of 
households, such as households  with strong financial positions , households  with high debt and 
vulnerability, and households  without  financial discipline. Such understanding would be crucial in 
considering  targeted and appropriate approaches for different group s of households. The Committee 
also deemed it necessary for the Bank of Thailand to co operate with relevant agencie s to push 
forward approaches to address household and SMEs debt problem s, such as debt restructuring and 
debt clinic, prom oting appropriate application of responsible lending practices, as well as cultivating 
financial discipline and saving behavior  among households.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   33  Financial c ycle and its policy implications  
Since the Global Financial Crisis (GFC) in 20 08, mos t central banks have put  more 
emphasis on preserving financial stability (FS), perceiving that the economy cannot grow in a 
sustainable way, disregarding a stable financial system. A systematic assessment of financial 
stability risks within monetary policy  deliberation processes, and the availability of indicators that 
can accurately signal those risks, have consequently become of great importance. This article 
aims to explain the construction of a financial cycle indicator, which will serve as a tool to 
measure Thailand’s overall FS risks together with other existing FS indicators and hence 
become part of appropriate monetary policy consideration.   
1. The concept of a financial cycle indicator  
Risks to financial stability can be assessed through a financial  cycle (FC) indicator, 
which measures deviations of the level of credit and asset prices from their respective 
trends. FC, thus, shows phases of expansion and contraction of the financial sector in each 
period.  A positive value of FC indicates the accelera tion of credit and asset price growth that may 
be inconsistent with the economy’s growth potential. On the other hand, a negative value of FC 
reflects the expansion of credit and asset prices that is below its trend, which normally occurs after 
a financial  crisis.  
In fact, dynamics of credit and asset prices are reinforcing.  During periods of eased 
monetary conditions, low interest rates will boost credit growth. Given that the credit expansion in 
part attributes to investment in money, capital, and real e state markets, it could lead to higher asset 
prices. The rise in asset prices then helps increase the collateral value, thereby contributing to 
further credit expansion.  
2. The financial cycle indicator for Thailand  
The FC indicator reflects deviations of  financial variables14/ from their trends.  For 
Thailand, the financial cycle is a composite index, constructed by averaging the cycles of 
8 financial indicators.15/ These include 4 credit variables and 4 asset -price variables.16/ Key 
observations are as follo ws: 
(1) The peak of FC portends the occurrence of a financial crisis. Prior to the Asian 
Financial Crisis in 1997, the FC was positive and stood at a high level  (Chart  2). Nevertheless, in 
gauging the extent of risks during financial crisis, the amplitude of a cycle should also be taken into 
consideration. For example, the current level of Thailand’s  FC already reached its peak in 2016, 
the amplitude of which was lower than that before 1997. To assess the concerned  level of FC, one  
                                      
14/  FC is calculated by a one -sided band -pass filte r, namely Christiano -Fitzgerald (CF) filter. The selection of 
frequencies corresponds to the financial -cycle length of around 8 to 30 years, which is suitable for measuring 
risks of financial crisis that usually take a while to accumulate and infrequently occur.  
15/  The criteria for choosing appropriate financial variables include: (1) such variables can reflect  leverage and  
asset pricing in the financial system  (2) their data cover periods of Thailand’s past financial crisis  and (3) cycles 
of the chosen va riables are overall consistent with one another.  
16/  Credit indicators, which can reflect leverage in the financial system, comprise  (1) outstanding credit extended 
to non -financial corporations,  (2) the ratio of total credit extended to non -financial corp orations to  GDP, (3)  
outstanding credit extended to households, and (4) the ratio of total household credit to GDP.  Meanwhile, asset -
price indicators, which serve to signal underpricing of risks, include ( 1) the single -detached house (including 
land) price  index, (2)  townhouse (including land ) price index, (3)  land price index,  and (4)  condominium price 
index.  However, equity prices, i.e. the SET index, are not included in the construction of Thailand’s FC, since 
their cycles have exhibited relatively high volatility compared to the 8 variables aforementioned.    
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   34  must consider linkages b etween FC and the probability of crisis, which will be discussed in the 
next section.   
(2) Assessing the components of FC, whose dynamics may differ in some periods, 
helps enhance our understanding about the contributing factors to systemic risks.  For 
example, (1) cycles of household credit (as a proportion of GDP) accelerated during 2011. This 
reflects the level of Thailand’s household debt that heightened after the great flood, as well as the 
launch of government measures to stimulate consumption, such a s first -car and first -home buyer 
schemes, and a rice -pledging scheme, which induced financial institutions to extend more loans  
(Chart  1, left-hand panel ). (2) Land and condominium price cycles increased markedly during 2009 -
2010, reflecting greater demand  for condominiums than other forms of real estate. This prompted 
the Bank of Thailand to impose regulations on mortgage lending (LTV)  in 2011 (Chart 1, right -hand panel ). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The relationship between FC and the probability of financial crisis  
The level of FC signals the probability of crisis, which could serve as an early 
warning indicator within the assessments of FS risks. This article applies the ratio of credit 
outstanding to GDP and real estate prices from both advanced and emerging economie s to 
estimate such probability of crisis17/ in future periods. The measure will allow policymakers 
sufficient time to implement macroprudential measures should FS risks materialize.  
The estimation results suggest that the probability of crisis for Thailand,  the U.S. 
and the United Kingdom synchronizes well with FC.  The probability of crisis, in most cases, 
also surges to a very high level ahead of a financial crisis, whereas it appears low whenever 
FC stands at a low level or prevails within a negative terri tory. Furthermore, it can be observed that 
the probabilities of crisis for Thailand and the U.S. prior to a financial crisis are relatively similar, 
although their FC level markedly differs.  
                                      
17/  The estimation is based upon a  panel logistic regression model  to assess the probability of crisis one to three 
years ahead.  The samples are from both advanced economies ( AEs), including  the U.S.,  the United Kingdom, 
France, Italy, Netherlands, and Spain, and emerging market economies (EMs), i.e.  Thailand and Malaysia. The 
identification of periods during which financial crises took place in each country is based on Laeven and 
Valencia (    ) “Syst emic Banking Crises Database: An Update”.  The cross -country regression should help 
improve accuracy of the estimates, since a financial crisis in Thailand occurred just once since 1993 and the 
estimation using only Thai data yields a statistically insignif icant estimate.  
-30-20-10010203040
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    Credit cycles
Financial cycle
Household credit
Non-financial corporate credit (NFC credit)
NFC credit-to-GDP
Household credit-to-GDP-30-20-10010203040
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    Asset price cycles
Land price index
(Single-detached) House price index
Townhouse price index
Condominum price index% %CrisisChart 1  Credit cycles and asset price cycles  are coherent
Deviation from trend
Crisis
Source: Calculations by Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   35   4. Policy implications  
Evaluating FC in conjunction with busin ess cycles (output gap)18/ enables more 
comprehensive assessments of risks to both economic growth and financial stability in 
monetary policy conduct.  This is because either an increase or decrease in the policy rate 
simultaneously impacts the economy and f inancial stability. For instance, in periods when FC 
expands considerably or reaches a high level during a business cycle contraction, monetary policy 
easing aiming at stimulating the economy may lead to further accumulation of financial stability 
risks be cause lower borrowing costs encourage a more credit expansion and rising asset prices.  
A comparison of Thailand’s FC and business cycles  (Chart  2) suggests that  (1) the 
duration and  amplitude of FC are higher than those of business cycles. A financial cris is 
normally stems from the accumulation of risks for extended periods. Once a crisis occurs, the 
economy faces a severe impact and takes time to recover. Meanwhile, an economic slowdown 
during a business -cycle contraction will take a shorter recovery perio d, since the economy is 
usually supported by demand -stimu lating  measures. (2) Recessions that occur at the same time 
as a financial crisis tend to be more severe and protracted than ones without it, since most 
financial institutions restrict their loans ex tension, making it difficult to boost demand and support 
economic recovery.   
The longer duration of FC than that of business cycles requires the conduct of 
monetary policy to be more forward -looking in order to strike the right balance between 
maintaining  macroeconomic stability and financial stability, given the differences in their cycle 
durations.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To conclude, the assessments of a financial cycle indicator and  the probability of crisis  
together with other financial stability indicators, suc h as property price index, components of 
household debt,  stress test and  scenario planning, will help enhance the efficiency of monetary 
policy conduct and its capability to preserve FS in a more systematic manner.   
                                      
18/ Business cycles, measured as deviations of GDP from its trend, show developments of economic conditions 
during both expansion and contraction phases, which evolve in tandem with economic activities in each period. 
Whereas business cycles  measure the level of an economic variable relative to its short -term trend, financial 
cycles show the level of financial variables relative to their corresponding medium -term trend.   
-15-10-505101520
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    Financial cycle Business cycleChart 2 Comparison of financial cycle and business cycle in Thailand
Note: Business cycle is expressed by output gap
Source: Calculations by Bank of ThailandDeviation from trend
%
Asian crisis 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   36  The concept of growth at risk and the linkage to   
Thailand’s f inancial stability  
Growth at Risk (GaR) is a tool used to measure risks to economic growth in the 
future. It applies the concept of  Value at Risk, an estimate of financial risks, to the evaluation of 
downside risks to economic growth . The objective of this article is  to explain th e measurement 
of GaR for Thailand as well as the empirical relationship between GaR and  a financial cycle 
(FC), both of which are crucial elements for the conduct of monetary policy that 
systematically incorp orates financial stability (FS) into considerations.  
1. Measuring GaR  
The forward -looking assessment of the economy necessarily  take into consideration both 
downside and upside risks that may deviate economic growth from baseline projection. GaR is one 
particular tool that can measure such risks by forecasting one -year-ahead quarterly GDP growth 
at different percentiles , where GDP growth at X percentile  (GaR X%) implies the probability of 
X percent that the GDP growth will fall below GaR X%19/. In general, GaR 5% is chosen to 
reflect extreme  downside risks or crisis events which infrequently occur20/. Moreover, GaR can be 
useful in assessing upside risks through the estimate of GaR 95%.  
Based on the historical distribution of Thailand’s quarterly GDP growth d uring  1993 -2018  
(Chart  1a), GaR 5%  registers at -4 percent  (red vertical line). That is, there is a 5 -percent chance 
that the Thai economy going forward will contract by more than  4 percent. Past observations 
featuring GDP growth below GaR 5%  were mostly i n the periods of 1997 Asian Financial Crisis 
(AFC), whereas GaR 95%  stands at around 9 percent. However, since 2000  (Chart  1b), it can be 
observed that the historical distribution of GDP growth has narrowed. While GaR 95% remains 
close to the previous leve l at 8 percent, GaR 5%  is at -2 percent. The episodes where the Thai 
economy contracted by over 2 percent correspond to the periods when Thailand was hit by the 
Global Financial Crisis (GFC) during 2008 -2009 and the Great Fl ood in 2011.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
19/  Mathematically, GaR X% is the threshold that satisfies  𝑃𝑟𝑜𝑏 𝑦𝑡+ℎ≤𝐺𝑎𝑅𝑡+ℎ 𝑋% =𝑋%, where  𝑦𝑡+ℎ denotes 
GDP growth h -quarter ahead. Normally, it is assumed that h=4, which amounts to measuring economic growth 
in the same quarter one -year ahead.  
20/  Extreme events that drag economic growth below GaR 5% hav e a 5 -percent chance of occurrence. In other 
words, they take place on average every 20 year.  
Chart 1 GaR 5%, GaR 95%, and distribution of Thailand ’s GDP growth
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDB), 
calculations by Bank of Thailanda)Data during 1993 -2018Distribution of Thailand’s GDP growth in the past
b) Data during 2000 -2018
.00.04.08.12.16.20
-20-16-12 -8-4 048121620DensityGDP Growth (%YoY)GaR 5% = - 4% YoY
GaR 95% = 9% YoY
.00.04.08.12.16.20
-20-16-12 -8-4048121620DensityGDP Growth (%YoY)GaR 5% = -2% YoY
GaR 95% = 8% YoY 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   37  The ab ove examples suggest that, although the estimate of  GaR 5%  may alter by 
periods of assessment, the observations that are below GaR 5% well reflect severe 
recession events. Such events include financial crises, which are systemic risks to FS  that 
do not fre quently occur but can have large negative impact on the  economy once they occur.  Given 
the fact that the probability of  systemic risks to  FS can be signaled by the FC indicator21/, this 
naturally leads to the hypothesis that GaR  is negatively correlated wit h FC. That is, an increase 
(decrease) in FC reflects heightened (lowered) systemic risks, prompting GaR 5% in future periods 
to deteriorate  (improve ).  
2. The relationship between GaR and FC  
The empirical relation between GaR  and FC can be studied through a quantile  
regression analysis,  where  the current level of FC is used to predict GaR 5% in the future22 , 
consistent with the forward -looking risk assessment. However, the estimation of Thailand’s GaR 
absolutely depends  on FC, i.e. excluding macroeconomic a nd external factors, and hence can only 
reflect risks emanated from the financial system.  
The empirical findings suggest that GaR 5%  for Thailand, an indicator of  downside 
risks, is negatively and significantly correlated with FC, consistent with the hypo thesis. 
Periods under which GDP growth outturn is lower than the predicted value of GaR 5%  coincide 
with AFC,  GFC  and the great flood of 2011 (Chart  2). Meanwhile, GaR 95%, which portrays upside 
risks, is relatively constant and does not correlate with FC.  It can, hence, be concluded that 
systemic risks  to FS  have a connection with downside risks to future economic growth. 
Therefore,  mitigating FS risks is crucial in reducing downside risks to economic growth and the 
severity of financial crisis that could occur in the future, thereby providing more  chances of 
achieving sustainable economic growth.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
21/  Additional details can be found in the box “Financial cycle and its policy implications ( Monetary Policy Report,  
the third quarter of 2019)  
22/ The baseline eq uation used in the study is 𝐺𝑎𝑅𝑡+4𝑋% =𝛽0𝑋%+𝛽1𝑋%𝐹𝐶𝑡+𝜀𝑡+4. The current value of FC  is to 
predict  GaR 5% four -quarter ahead.  Other factors can also be taken into considerations in this equation, including 
the upcycle and downcycle of FC, and the non -linear relationship between FC and  GaR.  It is estimated by a cross -
country panel -quantile regression, using the dataset of 9 countries. The estimation for only Thai data finds a 
negative 𝛽1 coefficient.   
Chart 2  Changes in GaR  % as explained by Thailand’s financial cycle
%
-15-10-505101520
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    FC GDP Growth GaR 5%
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Council (NESDB), 
calculations by Bank of Thailand 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   38  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3. Policy implications  
The linkage between the GaR framework and the level of FC, which is an indicator of 
systemic risks to FS, is an important el ement for the systematic assessment of FS risks in monetary 
policy decision  processes. In practice, the assessment of economic outlook should be performed 
in parallel  with evaluating downside GAR, in order to enhance the comprehensiveness of the 
informatio n set in support of the deliberation processes.  Nevertheless, the conduct of monetary 
policy could face intertemporal trade -offs in some occasions.  It would be beneficial to set the 
policy rate at a level that is not overly -expansionary, preventing the FC from rising too high and 
inducing risks to FS (the action referred to as “lean against the wind”). In turn, such level of policy 
rate would help reduce downside risks to future economic growth.  Such  policy decision, 
nevertheless, could affect economic grow th in the short -term.  On the contrary, monetary policy 
expansion, while being conducive to short -term economic growth, could have adverse 
consequences on economic and financial stability over the longer term.  The appropriate conduct 
of monetary policy shou ld, therefore, aim at striking the balance between both short -term 
and long -term economic stability.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   39 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
2018 2019
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
4.0 4.1 5.0 4.7 3.2 3.6 2.8 2.3
Production
3.7 5.1 6.8 10.5 3.2 0.7 1.7 -1.1
4.1 4.0 4.8 4.2 3.1 4.0 2.9 2.6
Manufacturing3.0 3.0 3.7 3.1 1.5 3.5 0.6 -0.2
Construction-2.8 2.7 1.2 1.9 4.5 3.4 3.0 3.4
Wholesales and retail trade7.0 7.3 7.0 7.4 7.5 7.5 6.8 5.9
Accommodation and Food Service10.6 7.9 13.1 8.8 4.1 5.3 4.9 3.7
Transport and storage8.2 5.7 7.1 5.4 4.5 5.4 3.5 2.5
Information and Communication2.7 6.8 5.2 7.7 7.4 6.9 6.5 9.3
Financial intermediation5.4 3.3 3.5 4.6 3.1 1.8 2.0 1.8
Real estate, renting, and business activities6.5 5.2 6.0 4.0 5.9 4.9 4.7 3.1
Domestic demand 2.1 3.9 3.3 3.6 4.3 4.3 4.1 3.2
Private consumption 3.0 4.6 3.8 4.1 5.2 5.4 4.9 4.4
Private investment 2.9 3.9 3.1 3.1 3.8 5.5 4.4 2.2
Government consumption 0.1 1.8 1.8 2.3 1.9 1.4 3.4 1.1
Public investment -1.2 3.3 4.0 4.9 4.2 -0.1 -0.1 1.4
Imports of goods and services6.2 8.6 9.1 8.8 11.0 5.7 -0.1 -2.7
imports of goods7.4 8.1 10.4 7.9 9.9 4.5 -2.6 -3.4
imports of services1.3 10.7 3.9 12.8 16.1 10.4 10.6 0.1
Exports of goods and services5.4 4.2 8.0 9.6 -0.9 0.7 -6.1 -6.1
exports of goods5.7 4.1 7.2 9.5 -0.5 0.8 -5.9 -5.8
exports of services4.6 4.4 9.9 10.3 -2.2 0.0 -7.2 -7.0
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars)32.6 22.4 7.4 6.4 3.9 4.6 6.5 5.7
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars)44.0 28.5 14.2 4.2 3.8 6.3 12.7 6.7
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars)-12.5 -14.9 -3.3 -8.1 -1.1 -2.5 -5.1 -3.2
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars)202.6 205.6 215.6 206.8 204.5 205.6 212.2 215.8
Unemployment rate (%)1.2 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.0
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%)n.a. n.a. 1.2 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of Thailand2018 2017
ExpenditurePercent
GDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agriculture 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   40  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Jul Aug
1. Financial market sector
1.1 0.7 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.2 0.1
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,753.7 1,563.9 1,776.3 1,595.6 1,756.4 1,563.9 1,638.7 1,730.3 1,712.0 1,654.9
Actual volatility of SET index1/6.5 12.1 9.4 12.3 11.6 14.0 8.4 7.8 8.3 14.8
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 19.1 14.8 18.3 16.2 17.3 14.8 17.1 18.6 18.5 18.8
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/4.4 3.3 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.7 4.6 4.5 5.7 4.4
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 110.6 115.6 114.8 115.2 115.4 117.0 120.0 121.2 123.6 125.2
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 103.7 107.2 106.3 107.1 107.2 108.2 110.2 111.6 113.6 114.7
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR)4/6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.42 1.46 1.46 1.46
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 18.2 18.34 18.09 17.86 18.39 18.34 18.22 18.00 18.27 n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 187.1 207.25 50.21 56.38 51.12 49.54 57.08 60.80 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 1.1 1.13 1.11 1.17 1.16 1.13 1.21 1.20 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 96.1 98.16 95.01 96.83 98.23 98.16 96.76 97.90 97.36 n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 78.4 78.6 77.8 77.7 77.9 78.6 78.7 78.7 n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.6 n.a. 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.4 2.5 2.4 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.3 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 1.6 1.7 1.5 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.8 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 2.6 2.3 3.2 2.4 2.5 2.3 2.5 2.2 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.5 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.5 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 8.0 7.5 7.9 7.8 8.0 6.5 7.5 5.9 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.8 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 6.5 6.4 7.1 6.5 6.6 5.4 5.2 3.8 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.7 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.7 1.5 1.7 n.a. n.a.
SMEs 4.4 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.7 4.5 4.6 4.5 n.a. n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 5 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisionsBond market
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )2018 2019
Indicators 2017 2018 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   41  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
2018 2019
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Jul Aug
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 65,124                 74,924     15,012     18,352     19,194     22,366     20,260     16,056     5,223    5,465    
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 14,517                 16,019     3,527        3,858        3,990        4,644        4,484        3,467        1,217    1,267    
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 21,469                 25,240     5,167        6,099        6,391        7,583        7,385        5,738        1,870    1,909    
 Condominiums 29,138                 33,665     6,318        8,395        8,813        10,139     8,391        6,851        2,136    2,289    
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 110,575              114,477   26,829     19,836     42,451     35,861     29,498     25,999     8,374    7,858    
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 19,433                 14,280     4,223        2,790        6,248        5,050        4,458        4,213        899        914        
Townhouses and commercial buildings 32,792                 36,571     6,657        6,548        8,759        10,385     5,236        7,940        1,980    3,534    
Condominiums 58,350                 63,626     15,949     10,498     27,444     20,426     19,804     13,846     5,495    3,410    
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 130.9 138.8 137.8 138.0 139.5 139.0 141.9 142.9 143.3 144.3
Townhouses (including land) 141.1 149.9 146.0 149.6 151.2 151.1 156.6 154.7 153.2 153.0
Condominiums 169.6 180.9 179.8 177.6 180.1 185.9 181.6 177.0 178.7 178.1
Land 171.7 175.8 170.4 173.5 172.9 177.6 175.5 168.1 168.7 168.0
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%)40.7 41.2 41.2 41.0 42.1 41.9 41.9 41.4 41.5 n.a.
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%) 9.6 5.6 11.0 3.4 3.1 4.9 9.5 5.0 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)6/36.7 35.5 36.5 35.1 35.5 35.5 35.1 34.8 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 155.2 162.4 157.5 154.2 159.0 162.4 164.5 166.8 166.7 168.8
Short-term (%) 44.3 39.0 42.9 42.9 41.6 39.0 38.5 37.4 36.9 37.0
Long-term (%) 55.7 61.0 57.1 57.1 58.4 61.0 61.5 62.6 63.1 63.0
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 2.9 3.2 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.2 3.4 3.5 3.5 3.5
Note:
6/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDP2018 Indicators 2017 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   42  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
2562 2563 2564
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
> 9 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 3
8-9 0 0 0 0 1 2 2 3 3
7-8 0 0 0 1 3 4 4 5 5
6-7 0 0 2 4 6 7 7 8 8
5-6 0 2 7 8 10 11 10 11 10
4-5 0 12 16 14 14 14 13 13 12
3-4 0 28 23 19 17 16 15 14 13
2-3 100 32 23 19 16 14 14 13 12
1-2 0 19 16 16 13 12 12 11 11
0-1 0 6 8 10 9 8 9 9 8
(-1)-0 0 1 3 5 6 5 6 6 6
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 1 2 3 3 4 4 4
(-3)-(-2) 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 2
< (-3) 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2Percent
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
2562 2563 2564
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
> 4.0 0 0 0 1 2 4 5 5 5
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 2 2 3 3 3 3
3.0-3.5 0 0 1 4 3 5 5 5 5
2.5-3.0 0 0 3 6 5 6 6 6 6
2.0-2.5 0 2 7 9 7 8 8 8 7
1.5-2.0 0 7 12 11 8 9 9 9 9
1.0-1.5 100 17 16 13 10 10 10 9 9
0.5-1.0 0 25 17 13 10 10 10 10 9
0.0-0.5 0 23 15 11 10 9 9 9 9
(-0.5)-0.0 0 16 12 10 9 8 8 8 8
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 8 8 7 8 7 7 7 7
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 3 5 5 7 6 6 6 6
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 1 2 3 5 4 4 5 5
< -2.0 0 0 2 4 12 9 10 11 12Percent
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
2562 2563 2564
Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 0 1 2 2 1 2
2.0-2.5 0 0 0 2 4 6 5 4 5
1.5-2.0 0 0 2 9 11 13 13 11 11
1.0-1.5 0 3 14 23 21 22 20 18 17
0.5-1.0 100 37 38 31 25 23 22 22 21
0.0-0.5 0 50 33 23 20 18 18 19 19
(-0.5)-0.0 0 10 12 10 11 10 11 13 13
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 0 2 3 5 4 5 7 7
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 3 3
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1
< -2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   43 4.2 Chart Pack  
Global economy  
Major advanced economies were expected to moderate in line with production, exports , and 
private investment . Private consumption continued to be an important driver, underpinned by 
robust employment i n the services sector. Asian economies would likely expand at a slower 
pace mainly on impact of trade  protectionist measures.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4550556065
                        U.S. Euro area JapanDiffusion index
Aug 19
Sources: Bloomberg and EurostatManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
0102030
                    Retail sales Manufacturing
Total investment Investment in manufacturing (31%)
Investment in real estate (22%) Investment in infrastructure (22%)China’s economic indicators
(Change from the same period last year)
Note: ( ) denotes share to total investment
Source: CEICPercent
Aug 19
60708090100110120130
                        China Hong Kong (Jul) Taiwan
South Korea Malaysia (Jul) Singapore
Indonesia Phillippines (Jul) Thailand (ex-gold)
Source: CEICExport value, 3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted 
(January 2014 = 100)
Index
Aug 19
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
                                        U.S. Euro Area Japan (Jul) China Asia* (Jul)Percent
Aug 19Inflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note : *Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia , 
the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source: CEIC 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   44 Thai economy  
The Thai economy was expected to expand at a slower rate due to a slowdown in both external 
and domestic demand. Merchandise exports would be affected  by a slowdown in trading 
partners’ growth and global trade volume , as well as a prolonged downturn in the  electronics 
cycle. In  addition, impact of merchandise export contraction on domestic demand became 
more pronounced on both private consumption and investment. Meanwhile, public 
expenditure would continue to support the economy.  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price and quantity
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2013 = 100)
859095100105110115
Jan
2013JulJan
2014JulJan
2015JulJan
2016JulJan
2017JulJan
2018JulJan
2019JulValue Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandAug 19
050100150200250300350
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019JulAsia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaIndex of foreign tourists classified by nationality  
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2015 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of TourismAug 19
6090120150180
Oct Jan April JulThousandsFY2017 FY2018 FY2019
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulPublic spending by central government
Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
Billion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy OfficeOct 18
Oct 18
-10-5051015
Q1
2016Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
2017Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
2018Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1
2019Q2Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory 2/ GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/ 
Note: 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM)
2/ Change in inventory and statistical discrepancy
Source: Office of National Economic and Social Development Council, 
calculations by the Bank of ThailandPercent
Second quarter 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   45 Inflation  
Headline inflation declined due to lower energy prices in line with global crude o il prices. Core 
inflation decreased mainly on account of core inflation  in the food category, while prices of 
other good s slowly increased as a result of domestic economic slowdown and impact of 
structural change s. Short -term inflation expectations decline d, while long -term inflation 
expectations remained unchanged.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflationContribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
Jul-Aug
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Jul-Aug
PercentUnderlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand-2.0-1.00.01.02.03.04.0
Jan
2013JulJan.
2014JulJan
2015JulJan
2016JulJan
2017JulJan
2018JulJan
2019JulHeadline inflation
Note: The field shows the highest and lowest outcomes among 
different measures of underlying inflation. The measures included 
are 1. Trimmed mean (excludes goods and services with most 
volatile price changes, removing the bottom 15 percentile and 
the top 10 percentile), 2. Principal component model
(calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services) and 3. Core inflation excluding rents and 
government measures.
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Jan
2019Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from the same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Survey (BSI) by the Bank of Thailand
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
using bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/ 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   46 Financial conditions  
Short -term money market rates, short -term government bond yields, and commercial bank s’ 
lending rates decreased in line with the policy rate. Long -term government bond yields 
declined at a fast pace driven by both domestic and external factors. F inancing activities in  
the private sector continued, particularly in the bond market. Meanwhile, financing through 
credit channel  slowed down in tandem  with moderating consumption and investment. The baht 
against the U.S. dollar  continued to appreciate due to concerns on the global economic 
slowdown as well as i ntensifying and prolonged trade tensions. Nonetheless, the baht 
weakened in some periods  as a result o f the Bank of Thailand’s measures to enhance 
surveillance of short -term capital inflows and the policy rate cut on 7 August 2019.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
JanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr JulOctJanApr Jul1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.Government bond yields
2016 2017 2018 2019
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) (data as of 24 September 2019)1.49
1 42
1.351.39
1.37
1.36
Total corporate financing by instrument*
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Billion baht
Note: * Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bonds excluding those issued by commercial 
banks, and newly issued equities.-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2019JulCredit Bond Equity
Aug 19
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120125130
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
JulREER
2015 2016 2017USDTHB (RHS) DXYNEER
2018 2019The Thai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), Nominal 
Effective Exchange Rate (NEER), and the Dollar Index (DXY)
Appreciation
Index
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 24 September 2019 )Baht per U.S. dollar
-4%-3%-3%-2%-2%-1%-1%0%1%1%
INR
CNY
EUR
KRW
AUD
GBP
PHP
SGD
MYR
JPY
TWD
THB
IDRCurrency movements vis -a-vis the U.S. dollar
(24 September 19 compared to end of Jun 19)
Percent
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollar
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 24 September 2019 ) 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   47 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-earning (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) s tabilized close to 
its historical average, while that of the Market for Alternative Investment (mai) decreased.  
The share  of unrated bond  issuance remained stable.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: household sector  
The ratio of household debt to GDP in the first qua rter of 2019 rose from the previous quarter, and 
this trend would continue.  Overall credit quality of households, as indicated by the  NPL ratio , 
remained stable,  despite  signs of an increas e in special mention loans (SM) across all loan types.   
  
  
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand (as of September 2019)Current price -to-earning ratio and turnover ratio  of SET 
and mai
020406080100120
02040SET turnover ratio mai turnover ratio
SET P/E ratio (RHS) mai P/E ratio (RHS) times
Average P/E of mai
(2015 -2017)
Average P/E of SET (2015 -2017)Percent
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Corporate bonds outstanding
9 91966 117127 6868 66 66 59 64 65 65
050100150200
01,0002,0003,0004,000
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
2018/Q1
2018/Q2
2018/Q3
2018/Q4
2019Q1
2019Q2
Aug-19Unrated
Non-investment grade
B group
A group
Number of companies issuing unrated bond  (RHS)
(3.3%)(1.4%)
(0.6%)
(0.4%)
(1.4%)(4.6%)(2.1%)(1.9%)
(2.4%)(2.5%)
Note:  ( ) represents percentage of unrated bonds to total corporate bonds(1.8%)(2.0%)(1.9%)Billion bahtNumber of companies 
issuing unrated bonds
(2.1%)
505560657075808590
Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1Q3Q1
                                Percent of GDP2/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
3/Household debt and GDP data are revised. This results in the 
different debt to GDP ratios compared to the last MPR.
Source: Bank of Thailand78.7Household debt1/
First quarter
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans (NPL) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
Percent
2.73.3
1.82.5
2.4
0.01.02.03.04.05.06.0
Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2
                        Consumer (Total) Home Auto Credit card Personal
Second quarter 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   48 Stabi lity: corporate sector  
Contraction in merchandise exports and baht appreciation  during the second quarter of 2019 
began to impact the Thai corporate sector, as reflected by deteriorating profitability and debt 
serviceability , especially those with a large proportion of revenue from export s. Moreover, 
there remained a need to monitor small businesses in certain sectors, such as construction 
and commercial sectors , which faced s tructural issues and subsequent weakness  in financial 
positions.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent
Note: * Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.Operating Profit Margin (OPM) and Return on Assets (ROA)*
5.9
5.1
456789
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Q4 2017
Q1 2018
Q2 2018
Q3 2018
Q4 2018
Q1 2019
Q2 2019Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Second quarter
-14.00-12.00-10.00-8.00-6.00-4.00-2.000.002.004.00
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Q4 2017
Q1 2018
Q2 2018
Q3 2018
Q4 2018
Q1 2019
Q2 2019
Smallest (Quintile 1) Small (Quintile 2) Medium (Quintile 3)
Large (Quintile 4) Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandInterest Coverage Ratio (ICR) TimeDebt serviceability at 25th percentile of each group of 
firm size
Second quarter
-10.0-5.00.05.010.015.0
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Q1/2015
Q1/2016
Q1/2017
Q1/2018
Q1/2019
Commerce Production
(exc.petro)Construction Real Estate Utilities Services OverallPercentile 25 Percentile 50Interest Coverage Ratio, classified by sector 
Time
Note: * production exclude Petroleum and chemicals
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)3.1
1.74.5
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Total corporate loan Large corporate loan SME loan
Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
2.52.03.1
01234
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Second quarter
Second quarter 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   49 Stability: real estate  
Risks of over supply in the real estate market heightened , especially for condominiums with value 
exceeding  5 million baht and those along the MRT Blue Line,  whose  excess supply and time -to-
go increased. Moreover, real estate d evelopers in such area s continued to launch new projects. 
Meanwhile, ownership transfers and overall residential prices declined.  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential transfer units in Bangkok and vicinities
Source: Real Estate Information Center
Note : *Monthly average during 2014 -20184145 
010203040506070
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019
Low-rise Condominium Total AverageThousand units (seasonally adjusted)
New residential projects launched in Bangkok and vicinities
Thousand units seasonally adjusted
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), calculation by Bank of Thailand
Note: *Monthly average during 2014 -201831
29 
0510152025303540
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019
Low-rise Condominium Total Average
051015202530
051015202530
    
    
    
2019H1
    
    
    
2019H1
    
    
    
2019H1
    
    
    
2019H1
    
    
    
2019H1Accumulated supply Time to go (RHS)Condominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinities 
and ‘Time to go ’
Note: ‘Time to go ’ is the time taken for  all real estate inventory to be sold out 
at the average sales rate per month (since projects launched) given no 
additional supply.
Source: AREA and calculation by the Bank of Thailand3-5 mio THB 5-10 mio THB 10 mio THBThousand units Months
2-3 mio THB 1-2 mio THB
142.9154.7177.0
168.1
100110120130140150160170180190
Q1
2013Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1
2016Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1
2019Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate price indices
Index (2009 = 100)
Source: Bank of ThailandQ2 2019
Note: Calculation based on commercial bank loan data 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   50 Stability: financial institutions  
Financial institutions maintained strong financial positions, as reflected in high levels of capital 
buffers among commercial banks to cushion against risks should credit quality deteriorate. In 
the second quarter of 2019, co mmercial bank credits expanded at a slower rate in line with 
softening  economic growth outlook. Meanwhile, overall NPL ratio remain ed at a high level.  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit growth in the commercial bank system
%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumersecond quarter2019 Q1 2019Q2
Total 5.6 4.2
Corporate 3.4 1.7
     Large corporate 4.4 2.6
     SME 1.5 -0.1
   Consumer 10.1 9.2
2.65
1.943.98
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Total NPL (%) Large Corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%)Non-performing loan (NPL)
%
Source: Bank of ThailandSecond quarter2019Q1 2019Q2
Total 2.94 2.95
Large 1.54 1.67
SME 4 60 4.47
Consumer 2.75 2.74
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
3235444447
373541
363433150.4195.6
100120140160180200220
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
201901020304050607080
Loan loss provisions (RHS)
Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
15.218.5
11.515.8
3.7
2.7
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of ThailandSecond quarter 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   51 Stability: external positions  
Thailand’s external stability remained sound, as reflected in high levels of international 
reserves and sustained current account surplus. Moreo ver, the ratio of external debt to GDP 
was below an international benchmark. This would help the Thai economy to be resilient 
against volatilities in the global  financial market.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP was still below the fiscal 
sustainability  threshold.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
050100150200250300
0102030405060
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4
2018Q1
2018Q2
2018Q3
2018Q4
2019Q1
2019Q2Long-term debt (RHS)
Short-term debt (RHS)
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48%Billion U.S. dollar Percent
Source: Bank of ThailandReserve to short -term debt
012345
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
2018Q1
2018Q2
2018Q3
2018Q4
2019Q1
2019Q2
Aug-19Aug 19 = 3.5Time
Percent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability (60%)Public debt to GDP
43.740.7 41.7 41.3 41.9 41.2 41.2 41.0 42.0 41.9 41.9 41.4 41.5
0204060
Other government agencies FIDF
Financial state-owned enterprises Non-financial state-owned enterprises
Advance borrowing for debt restructuring FIDF compensation
Public government’s direct borrowing Public debt to GDP
External
3.2%
Domestic
96.8%Outstanding debt as of July 2019
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from 
remaining duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
10.0%
Long -term 
90.0% 
Monetary Policy Report  September 2019   52  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
