 
Monetary Policy Report  December  2018 
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
December  2018 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
Mr. Kanit Sangsubhan  Member  
Mr. Subhak Siwaraksa  Member  
Mr. Somchai Jitsuchon  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  December  2018 
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 8. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardizing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reas ons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.  Monetary Policy Report December  2018  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  4 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast assumptions for trading partners’ economic growth  
 Global financial markets  
 Oil prices   
BOX : The recent monetary p olicy normalization: international perspectives  
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ............................  10 
2.1 Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ........................  10 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial conditions   
 Exchange rates  
 Financial stability   
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ........  18 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and inflation forecasts  
3. Monetary Policy  Decision  ................................ ................................ .................  24 
 Monetary Policy Committee’s decisions in the previous quarter   
BOX : Setting appropriate framework and objectives of Thailand’s monetary  policy 
amid challenges under changing economic and financial context.  
BOX : The need to hike the policy rate at the MPC meeting 8th/2018.  
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  33 
4.1 Table s ................................ ................................ ................................ ................  33 
Dashboard of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard of indicators for financial stability  
 Probability distribution of growth and inflation forecast  
4.2 Data  Pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..........  38 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   Monetary Policy Report December 2018   1   Executive Summary  
Monetary Policy Conduct in the Fourth Quarter of 2018  
In the Committee’s view, the Thai economy continued gaining traction and expanded at the level consistent with its 
potential. Headline and core inflation were projected to be broadly in line with the previous assessment. Financial stability  
remained sound overall, but it was deemed necessary to monitor risks that might lead to the build -up of vulnerabilities in 
the financial system. The Committee weighed various factors in determining the most appropriate course of 
monetary policy and voted 4 to 3 at the me eting on November 14, 2018 to maintain the policy rate at 1.50 percent 
and voted 5 to 2 at the meeting on December 19, 2018 to raise the policy rate by 0.25 percentage point to 1.75 
percent.  At the latest meeting, most Committee members viewed the continui ty of economic expansion sufficiently 
strong. The need for currently extra accommodative monetary policy as in the previous period had thus reduced and the 
policy rate should be raised to curb financial stability risks and to start building policy space. M oreover, the policy rate at 
1.75 percent would still be conducive to continuous economic growth. Nonetheless, two members viewed that risks and 
uncertainties on the external front heightened and could affect Thailand’s economic growth in the period ahead a nd thus 
saw the need to assess the clarity of such impacts on the sustainability of domestic growth momentum. In addition, the 
implemented macroprudential measures had addressed certain risks to financial stability to some extent.   
Looking ahead, the Thai economy was projected to continue to gain traction despite the slowdown in external demand. 
The Committee viewed that accommodative monetary policy would remain appropriate in the period ahead. The policy 
rate increase would be gradual and not in a continu ous manner as in the past. The Committee would thus closely monitor 
developments of economic growth, inflation, and financial stability, together with associated risks, in deliberating 
appropriate monetary policy in the period ahead.   
Assessment of the Economic and Financial Outlook as the Basis for Policy Formulation  
1. Global Economy  
The global economy was expected to expand at a slower rate due to lower -than-expected outturns in several 
countries during the third quarter of 2018. However, most Thailan d’s trading partners would still operate above potential. 
While there was additional  momentum from the U.S. economy due to greater fiscal stimulus expected to take effect in 
2019, growth momentum from other countries would slow down because domestic demand was affected by tightening 
financial conditions, less fiscal stimulus, as well as un certainties regarding the U.S. trade protectionism measures and 
political issues in the euro area. The Committee thus revised down the growth projection of Thailand’s trading 
partners to 3.6 and 3.4 percent in 2018 and 2019, respectively. The projections w ould be subject to increased 
downside risks  mainly due to an increased likelihood of the no -deal Brexit. Other risks that warranted monitoring 
included uncertainties pertaining to the trade protectionism measures, geopolitical risks, and China’s financial stability 
concerns.   
Most central banks started to reduce the degree of accommodative monetary policy. The U.S. Federal 
Reserve (Fed) still gradually normalized its monetary policy. The European Central Bank (ECB) would end new 
bond purchases at the end of  2018 as announced, but would roll over matured bonds and was expected to maintain 
its interest rate until the second half of 2019. The Bank of Japan would likely maintain their short -term and long -
term target rates for some time. On the other hand, some r egional central banks raised their policy rates in the 
fourth quarter of 2018, for instance, the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, Bank Indonesia, and the Bank of Korea. 
Looking ahead, other countries in the region were expected to gradually normalize their mon etary policy to be 
consistent with the economic growth outlook and to preserve price and financial stability.  
Emerging markets (EMs) experienced capital outflows , as investors viewed the prospect of the Fed’s rate hikes to 
be more certain and there were co ncerns over intensifying trade protectionism measures by the U.S. and heightened 
political uncertainties in Europe. Nonetheless, capital flows partly returned to EMs after such concerns somewhat 
alleviated. Looking ahead, global financial markets would lik ely remain highly volatile. EM capital flows could fluctuate 
given uncertainties surrounding the Fed’s future rate hikes, possibly intensifying trade protectionism measures after the 
announcement of temporary suspension of new tariffs, and uncertainties pe rtaining to Brexit negotiations which 
warranted close monitoring.  
 Monetary Policy Report December 2018   2 2. Financial Conditions and Financial Stability  
Thailand’s financial conditions remained accommodative , although overall government bond yields increased at the 
beginning of the fourth quarter before falling afterwards. This is due to greater demand from foreign investors, the lower -
than-expected outturns of Thailand’s economic figures in the third quarter , and investors’ concerns over uncertainties on 
the external front. The new loan rate remained at a low level. Private credit expanded in both business and household 
sectors. Businesses continued to seek funding through both debt and equity instruments. Th e Thai baht depreciated 
against the U.S. dollar from the end of the previous quarter due to investors’ concerns over uncertainties on the external 
front. The baht depreciated at a larger extent as compared with other regional currencies. This was due partl y to some 
corrections after previously appreciated faster than other regional currencies. The real effective exchange rate (REER) 
depreciated.  
Financial stability remained sound but there remained pockets of risks that warranted monitoring. These 
included, first, the search -for-yield behavior, in particular by saving cooperatives and large corporates, which persisted in 
the prolonged low interest rate environment and could lead to underpricing of risks. Second, the property sector was 
subject  to accumulated vulnerabilities in the mortgage loan market and oversupply in the real estate market. The markets 
would likely adjust to the implemented revision in the macroprudential measure on mortgage loans during the period prior 
to the effective date . Housing demand would likely rise as a consequence of accelerated purchasing of mortgage loan 
borrowers for second or more homes and the developers would adopt more proactive marketing strategy. Third, despite 
household debt slowly declining, it remained at a relatively high level and the debt serviceability of some groups of 
households and small corporates continued to deteriorate.    
3. Economic and Inflation Outlook  
The Thai economy was projected to record slower growth at 4.2 and 4.0 percent in 2018 an d 2019, respectively , 
lower than the projection in the previous Monetary Policy Report . Growth drivers stemming from external demand were 
expected to moderate as merchandise and services export growth would be lower than expected. Meanwhile, domestic 
deman d would remain a key growth driver, especially on the back of sustained private consumption growth.   
Merchandise exports were expected to slow down in tandem with global demand.  This was partly due to export 
prices which would decline following a fall in c rude oil prices and a temporary factor pertaining to natural disasters in 
Thailand’s trading partners. The value of merchandise exports was projected to grow at lower rates of 7.0 and 3.8 percent 
in 2018 and 2019, respectively. The downward revisions were owing to impacts of the U.S. trade protectionism measures 
on global trade volume and Thailand’s trading partner economies. Nonetheless, the redirected orders and the relocation 
of production base from China to Thailand would be supporting factors in the pe riod ahead. Under the Committee’s 
assessment, although concerns over trade protectionism measures alleviated in the short term, there remained 
uncertainties which could put pressures on the international trade and investment. This would both directly and i ndirectly 
affect Thai exports. Thus, it was deemed necessary to closely monitor developments of trade negotiations.   
Exports of services were projected to exhibit slower growth due to a gradual recovery in Chinese tourist figures.  
The projected number of f oreign tourists was revised down to 38 and 40 million for 2018 and 2019, respectively. This 
was owing to a large contraction in Chinese tourist arrivals following more severe and longer -than-expected impacts of 
the Phuket tour boat sinking incident, couple d with additional effects of Chinese economic slowdown and the renminbi 
depreciation. However, signs of improvement in Chinese tourists were observed after the government promptly 
enhanced safety standards in the tourism sector and put in place marketing i ncentives such as the free visa -on-arrival.  
Private consumption was expected to continue expansion in almost all categories , particularly for durable and 
semi-durable goods. Growth would be partly supported by the waning effect of the first -car scheme, mor e broad -based 
growth of non -farm income, and continued improvements in employment in major sectors, as well as support from 
government policies. However, private consumption growth was expected to moderate somewhat in the period ahead 
due to the high -base effect of durable goods consumption in 2018. Moreover, elevated household debt would cause 
households to allocate part of their income for debt repayment. Structural changes in the labor market would limit wage 
increases. These factors would restrain purch asing power in the period ahead.  
The government would help drive the economy despite some slowdown in public spending compared with the 
previous assessment. Delays in public investment were expected in some projects. Central government investments 
were rev ised down due to the delayed approval of land expropriation expenses for  the Bang Yai­Kanchanaburi motorway 
project. Moreover, delays in drafting the master plans under the National Strategy prompted government agencies to 
defer obligation of funds for some projects. For state -owned enterprises, investments were revised down due to the Monetary Policy Report December 2018   3 deferment of the second phase of the dual -track rail project which was during the process of project priority review. 
Government consumption growth was projected to be in line with the previous assessment.  
Private investment growth projections were largely unchanged, but would gradually improve mainly on the back 
of machinery and equipment investment.  Drivers would come from upgrades to production efficiency and capacity 
expansion as well as the relocation of production base to Thailand. Such factors would compensate for the moderating 
investment trend owing to investor concerns over trade protectionism measures as well as delays in public investment. 
Additional supporting f actors for the investment outlook were (1) special measures by the Board of Investment (BOI) to 
boost investment and (2) the public -private partnership (PPP) in infrastructure investment projects in the Eastern 
Economic Corridor (EEC). Progress of such inv estment projects would be monitored going forward.  
The inflation outlook was expected to be in line with the previous assessment.  Headline inflation was projected to 
be slightly lower than the previous assessment due to lower crude oil prices despite some offset by higher fuel adjustment 
surcharge (Ft). Core inflation was expected to slightly increase due to higher bus fares and gradually improving demand -
pull inflationary pressures. The Committee thus projected headline inflation to be 1.1 and 1.0 percent for 2018 and 
2019, respectively, and core inflation to be 0.7 and 0.9 percent for 2018 and 2019, respectively.  
Risks to the growth projection were expected to tilt more downward, mainly due to external factors as the 
probability of no -deal Brexit heightene d. Moreover, the possibility that the Thai economy would underperform the baseline 
forecast could be due to (1) impacts of the U.S. trade protectionism measures, (2) lower -than-expected growth of trading 
partners, (3) slower -than-expected growth of private  consumption due to an uneven distribution of domestic purchasing 
power recovery, especially for farm income, and (4) lower -than-expected public expenditure due to constraints in budget 
disbursement and project execution. On the other hand, the possibility  that the Thai economy would outperform the 
baseline forecast could be due to (1) less -than-expected Chinese economic slowdown, and (2) possibly higher -than-
expected domestic spending due to infrastructure investment and PPP projects as well as government measures to help 
stimulate private consumption. Meanwhile, risks to the forecasts of headline and core inflation were expected to 
tilt more downward  in line with increased downside risks to growth projections and to oil prices.  
  Monetary Policy Report December 2018   4 1. Global  Economy  
Major advanced economies were expected to grow with greater divergence on their 
growth rates. While the U.S. and Japanese economies would likely expand, growth 
momentum in the euro area was expected to slow down due to domestic factors and global 
trade slowdown .  
The U.S. economy was expected to continue gaining traction.  In the third quarter 
of 2018, the U.S. economy saw better -than-expected growth as businesses built up  
inventories from the previously low level. Looking ahead, the U.S. would continue to grow o n 
the back of domestic demand with support from strong labor market, high consumer 
confidence and policies regarding personal and business income tax cuts. Moreover, 
increased government spending after the U.S. Congress passed the budget bill for 2019 woul d 
be an additional support for the economy in the period ahead. On the other hand, the euro 
area was expected to expand moderately . In the third quarter of 2018, the economy slowed 
down temporarily due to the new emission testing regime which had some temp orary effects 
on automobile production. In the period ahead, growth momentum was expected to slow down 
due to further restraint in private sector confidence following political uncertainty in various 
countries. In addition, global trade volume, which would  be moderate, could affect exports in 
some countries. The Japanese economy was expected to continue expanding despite the 
negative growth rate in the third quarter of 2018 due to temporary factors, namely the natural 
disasters from storm and earthquake. No netheless, domestic demand was expected to recover  
in the fourth quarter as supported by strong labor market and continued accommodative 
monetary policy. In the period ahead, private consumption would likely accelerate prior to the 
consumption tax increase  in October 2019, although merchandise exports could be affected by 
the global trade slowdown (Chart 1.1).  
The Chinese economy was expected to slow down due to a series of financial stability 
measures released previously. Meanwhile, growth momentum of othe r Asian economies 
somewhat declined on account of tightening financial conditions, confidence which started 
to be affected by the U.S. trade protectionism measures, and lower fiscal stimulus in some 
countries .  
The Chinese economy was expected to exhibit slower growth as financial 
conditions were tightened because banks previously tightened credit standards according to 
a series of the Chinese government’s financial stability measures to curb debt levels in the 
economy. In addition, the impacts of the U.S. trade protectionism measures would be 
increasingly prominent in the period ahead despite the recently limited effects on Chinese 
exports which accelerated before the full implementation of the U.S. tariffs impos ed. 
Nonetheless, the government’s growth -supportive measures, including accelerated investment in 
infrastructure, tax deductions for businesses and households, and injection of more liquidity 
into the financial system by reducing the banks’ reserve require ment ratio (RRR), would help 
alleviate the adverse impact of the financial stability and trade protectionism measures to 
some extent.   
 Monetary Policy Report December 2018   5 Asian economies, excluding China and Japan, were expected to slow down. In 
the third quarter of 2018, several economi es recorded slower growth than previously 
assessed. Domestic demand began to experience some impacts from tightening financial 
conditions in some countries, slumping confidence following the U.S. trade protectionism 
measures, and lower fiscal stimulus in s ome countries. In particular, the Malaysian 
government postponed some public investment to stabilize fiscal deficit and the Indonesian 
government also delayed in some state investment to reduce the size of current account 
deficit. Nonetheless, domestic dem and in Asian economies were expected to expand in the 
period ahead supported by robust economic fundamentals, especially strong labor markets 
and upward wage adjustments in many countries. Meanwhile, merchandise exports were 
expected to register slower gro wth in line with the global economic outlook, coupled with 
indirect effects of trade protectionism measures on global supply chain.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The growth projection for Thailand’s trading partners was revised downward, with greater 
downside risks to the baseline projection.  
Thailand’s trading partner economies were expected to record slower growths 
than previously projected in the previous Monetary Policy Report . The downward 
revision was due to lower -than-expected growth outturns during the third quarter  of 2018 in 
many countries. Going forward, most trading partner economies would continue expanding 
above their potential levels, coupled with an additional momentum from the U.S. economy due 
to additional fiscal stimulus in 2019. Meanwhile, growth momentum  of other countries would 
slow down because domestic demand was affected by tightening financial conditions, lower 
fiscal stimulus, as well as uncertainties regarding the U.S. trade protectionism measures and 
political situations in the euro area. The Comm ittee, thus, revised down the growth projection 
for Thailand’s trading partners from 3.8 and 3.5 percent to 3.6 and 3.4 percent in 2018 and 
2019, respectively (Table 1.1).  
Under the Committee’s assessment, there were increased downside risks that 
Thailand’ s trading partner economies would underperform the baseline projection  due 
mainly to an increased likelihood of the no -deal Brexit. Other risks that warranted monitoring 
included, first, uncertainties pertaining to the U.S. trade protectionism measures des pite the 
recent United States -Mexico -Canada Agreement (USMCA) and the temporary truce on the 
-12-10-8-6-4-20246
8090100110120130140
2015 2016 2017 2018U.S.
Euro area (RHS)
Japan (RHS)
Oct 18Chart 1.1 Consumer confidence remain edhigh in the U.S., but 
continued to decline in the euro area and Japan
Diffusion index* Deviation from par*
Note :*Euro area’s par = 0 and Japan’s par = 50
Source: Bloomberg
5060708090100110120130140
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Electronics(41.8%) Other Manufacturing products (22.7%)
Commodites (20.8%) Machinery (5.9%)
Transportation (7.7%) Food (1.2%)
Sep 18Chart 1.2 Asian exports expanded due to the front -load order before 
the full implementation of the announced U.S. tariff measures
Asia n exports value* classified by product categories
Index, sa(Jan 2013 = 100 )
Note: *Asian exports include Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Malaysia and Singapore. 
( ) denotes share of total exports in 2017
Commodity -related products include crude oil, metals, chemicals, rubber , 
and vegetable oil.
Other manufacturing products include textile, papers, furniture, footwear and 
miscellaneous 
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report December 2018   6 U.S.-China trade tensions after the G20 summit. The U.S. and China agreed to suspend new 
trade tariffs for 90 days in an attempt to mutually reach an agreement. Se cond, uncertainties 
regarding geopolitical risks, particularly the denuclearization negotiations between the U.S. 
and North Korea which has yet to materialize, as well as recurring tensions in the Middle East, 
could heighten volatility in the global financ ial and commodity markets, especially through oil 
prices, and would, in turn, affect the real economy. Moreover, there remained risks pertaining 
to political uncertainties  in Europe, particularly the Brexit negotiations. Although the draft of 
UK’s withdraw al agreement was recently approved at the EU summit, the U.K. parliament was 
expected to vote on the deal later. Third, financial stability concerns in China persisted. 
Despite the government’s intensifying financial stability measures, there remained chal lenges 
in balancing between promoting economic growth and preserving financial stability.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most central banks started to normalize monetary policy.   
In 2018, the U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) raised the federal fund rate four times in total, 
in line with expectations, on the back of robust economic growth and continued tightening 
labor market. In 2019, the Fed was expected to raise the policy rate twice i nstead of three 
times as projected in the previous assessment. The revision was due to heightened global 
economic uncertainty, financial market volatility, and the policy rate being closer to the neutral 
rate. Going forward, the Fed’s monetary policy would  be particularly flexible and data -
dependent. Meanwhile, the European Central Bank (ECB) would end new bond purchases at 
the end of 2018 as announced, but would roll over matured bonds and was expected to 
maintain its policy rate until the second half of 2 019. On the other hand, some regional central 
banks raised their policy rates in the fourth quarter of 2018, namely the Bangko Sentral ng 
Pilipinas, Bank Indonesia and the Bank of Korea (Box: The recent  monetary policy normalization: 
international perspectives ). 
 
 
 
Weight (%) 2017 * 2018 2019
United States 14.9 2.2 2.9 (2.8) 2.6 (2.3)
Euro area 10.0 2.5 1.9 (2.1) 1.6 (1.8)
Japan 13.6 1.9 0.8 (1.2) 1.0 (1.0)
China 15.7 6.9 6.6 (6.6) 6.2 (6.2)
Asia (excluding Japan and China)** 37.4 4.6 4.2 (4.3) 3.9 (4.1)
Total*** 100 3.9 3.6 (3.8) 3.4 (3.5)
Note:   *Outturn
 **Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to 7 trading partners in 2014, namely 
    Singapore (6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia (8.0%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), 
    South Korea (2.8%), and the Philippines (3.7%)
***Weighted by a share of exports from Thailand to 13 trading partners in 2014 (including the 
    United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) as reported in Monetary Policy Report, September 2018Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partner growth
Annual change (%YoY) Monetary Policy Report December 2018   7 The recent monetary policy normalization : international perspectives  
Central banks around the world have implemented ultra -accommodative monetary 
policy since the outburst of the global financial crisis in 2008. However, as the global ec onomy 
continued to show a strong recovery, many central banks began to normalize their monetary 
policy by reducing the degree of policy accommodation. Most importantly, the Federal Reserve 
(Fed) started raising its policy rate for the first time in Decembe r 2015 and has gradually hiked 
the rate since then. In 2018, the policy rate was raised four times to 2.25 - 2.50 percent. The 
Fed’s policy rate hikes then resulted in an upward trend for global interest rates and the 
tightening of global financial conditi ons.  
Central banks in Asia also began reducing the degree of monetary policy accommodation  
during 2017 - 2018 owing to several reasons. The Bank of Korea, for example, started to 
increase its policy rate for the first time in November 2017 due mainly to f inancial stability 
concerns. Against the backdrop of robust economic growth, the Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) 
raised its policy rate for the first time in January 2018 to mitigate risks resulted from the 
prolonged low interest rate. The Bangko Sentral ng Pil ipinas (BSP), meanwhile, had its first 
policy rate hike in May 2018 to preserve price stability after inflation had risen above the 2 -4 
percent inflation target. Bank Indonesia also raised the policy rate for the first time in May 2018 
to alleviate pressur es from capital outflows and currency depreciation. The Bank of Thailand 
began to raise its policy rate in December 2018, later than other countries. This was partly 
thanks to strong external stability, as reflected by the high level of international reser ves and 
the continued current account surplus, which allowed the monetary policy conduct to be more 
independent of external factors and greater considerations on domestic factors. Going 
forward, other regional countries are expected to gradually normalize their monetary policy in 
line with the economic outlook, as well as to preserve both price stability and financial stability.  
Table 1 : The policy rate s increased in various countries after the 2008 Global Financial Crisis  
Country  
 Date of the first 
policy rate hike  
 The initial  
policy rate  
(%) Accumulated 
policy rate hike  
(%) The current level of 
policy rate  
(%) 
The United States  16 Dec 2015  0 – 0.25 2.25 2.25 – 2.50 
The European Union  Unchanged  0 - 0 
Japan  Unchanged  - 0.1 - - 0.1 
South Korea  30 Nov 2017  1.25 0.50 1.75 
Malaysia  25 Jan 2018  3.00 0.25 3.25 
Philippines  10 May 2018  3.00 1.75 4.75 
Indonesia  17 May 2018  4.25 1.75 6.00 
Thailand  19 Dec 2018  1.50 0.25 1.75 
Notes: Data as of 19 December 2018.  
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report December 2018   8 Capital flow experienced volatility due to  anticipation of the Fed’s rate hike, concerns over 
the U.S. trade protectionism measures, and political uncertainty in Europe . 
In October 2018, emerging markets (EMs) experienced capital outflows, particularly in 
equity markets, as investors viewed the pr ospects of the Fed’s rate hike to be more certain 
after the Fed’s chairman and some Federal Open Market Committee members (FOMC) 
expressed views in support of a rate hike. Moreover, investors were concerned about the U.S. 
trade protectionism measures and h eightened political uncertainty in Europe, especially 
regarding the Brexit negotiations and Italy’s budgetary process. Such concerns were reflected 
by rising VIX1 index (Chart 1.3). However , capital flows partly returned to EMs in November 
2018 after such concerns alleviated as trade negotiations between the U.S. and China 
exhibited some positive signs and the Brexit negotiation showed some progress, resulting in 
somewhat declining VIX index . The EM bond markets continued to experience capital inflows, 
partly due to country -specific factors. For instance, Bank Indonesia continuously raised its 
policy rate while Thailand’s economic fundamentals remained strong and a policy rate hike 
was antici pated.  
Looking ahead, global financial markets would remain highly volatile. Capital flows in 
EMs could experience volatility as uncertainties loomed on the future U.S. rate hikes, possibly 
intensifying trade protectionism measures after the announcement of temporary truce of new 
trade tariffs, and the Brexit negotiations which warranted close monitoring.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
1/ VIX Index is a measure of the stock market volatility implied by S&P 500 index options  
5101520253035
-6,000-4,000-2,00002,0004,0006,000
08-Dec-17
22-Dec-17
05-Jan-18
19-Jan-18
02-Feb-18
16-Feb-18
02-Mar-18
16-Mar-18
30-Mar-18
13-Apr-18
27-Apr-18
11-May-18
25-May-18
08-Jun-18
22-Jun-18
06-Jul-18
20-Jul-18
03-Aug-18
17-Aug-18
31-Aug-18
14-Sep-18
28-Sep-18
12-Oct-18
26-Oct-18
09-Nov-18
23-Nov-18
07-Dec-18Equity securities Debt securities VIX index (RHS)Net capital inflows to EMs* (weekly)  and VIX index Chart 1.3  In October 2018, EMs experienced capital outflows due to market 
expectations on Fed rate hike, concerns over trade protectionism measures, 
and political uncertainties in Europe. Capital flows partly returned to EMs in 
November after concerns subsided.
Note: * EMs include Thailand, Indonesia, India, South Africa, and Turkey 
Sources:  Bloomberg and  Institutional Institute of Finance Million USD Index
+ Net capital inflows
-Net capital outflowsMonetary Policy Report December 2018   9 Crude oil prices in the fourth quarter of 2018 declined from the previous quarter . 
This is due to alleviated concerns over oil supply afte r the U.S. temporarily lifted some 
sanctions on Iran and investors’ concerns over the global economic outlook that might 
exhibit a further slowdown.   
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Dubai crude oil prices declined from the 
previous quarter . Concerns ov er oil supply subsided after the U.S. had lifted some sanctions 
on Iran’s oil exports for eight major Iran’s oil importing countries, such as China, Japan, South 
Korea and India, for six months. Besides, the U.S. Department of Energy anticipated the U.S. 
crude oil production to reach a new -high record level at 11.7 million barrel per day at the end 
of 2018, owing to the gradual increase in production by shale oil producers. Additionally, 
concerns that global economic growth could further decelerate would we igh on oil prices. 
Nevertheless, at the beginning of December 2018, the OPEC and allies reached an agreement 
to cut crude oil production by 1.2 million barrel per day for six months starting from January 
2019. This would help support oil prices to some ext ent. 
The Committee therefore revised down the projection for Dubai crude oil prices 
throughout the forecast horizon given a slowdown in global economic growth, which 
would affect demand for crude oil. Meanwhile, the agreement to curtail oil production 
was expected to raise oil prices to a certain extent, thereby preventing a sharp decline 
of oil prices in 2019.  The Committee thus revised down the projection for oil prices from 70.3 
to 69.8 dollars per barrel in 2018, and from 69.8 to 66.0 dollars per barre l in 2019 (Chart 1.4). 
Nevertheless, there were greater risks that oil prices would be below the baseline 
projection . Such risks included the U.S. trade protectionism measures that might impact 
global trade volume and global economic growth more than previ ously assessed, a possibly 
faster -than-expected increase in the U.S. shale oil production, as well as the cut in oil 
production by OPEC members and allies which could be lower than the agreement. 
Meanwhile, upside risks that the oil prices would be above t he baseline projection were from 
geopolitical risks, such as those in Libya and Iraq, which might consequently lower supply of oil .     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 020406080100120140
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Q1
2019Q1
2020   Upper bound          Lower bound       Sep 2018                     Dec 2018U.S. dollar/barrelChart 1.4 Dubai crude oil prices in 2018Q4 declined from the previous quarter 
amid easing concerns over supply shortages after the US temporarily lifted 
some sanctions on Iran, coupled with concerns over global economic growth 
that could slow down furtherMonetary Policy Report December 2018   10 2. The Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent Developments  
The Thai economy continued to gain traction in the third quarter of 2018, mainly driven by 
domestic demand while external demand slowed down . 
In the third quarter of 2018 , the Thai economy expanded 3.3 percent from the same 
period last year. The key driver was accelerating private consumption growth across almos t 
all product categories, particularly durable goods following passenger car sales, on the back 
of improved purchasing power and robust consumer confidence. Private investment accelerated,  
driven by construction investment, particularly residential constru ction. Machinery and 
equipment investment also continued to expand. Meanwhile, public spending expanded on 
account of procurement of goods and services and social welfare transfer in -kind. However, 
spending on public investment slowed down in construction projects while investment by state -
owned enterprises continued to expand. With regard to external demand, merchandise 
exports slightly contracted mainly in agricultural products and gold. Exports of some products, 
such as washing machines, solar cell panel s and integrated circuit boards, declined as a result 
of direct and indirect impact of the U.S. trade protectionism measures. Nevertheless, the value 
of merchandise exports in September temporarily declined due to the impact of natural 
disasters in Japan, Hong Kong and the Philippines. Growth in exports of services slowed down 
in line with declining number of Chinese tourists following the Phuket tour boat sinking incident 
in July.  
The Thai economy continued to gain further traction in the fourth quarter of  2018 , as 
reflected by recent economic indicators. Merchandise exports growth recovered as the impact 
of temporary negative factors were short -lived. However, exports of some product categories 
were still affected by the trade protectionism measures. Expor ts of services showed signs of 
slowing down mainly due to the decline in Chinese tourists as the Chinese government imposed 
stricter safety standards on destination countries and China’s economic growth showed signs 
of moderating. Meanwhile, domestic deman d continued to support the Thai economy. Private 
consumption indicators recording robust growth thanks to higher household income and 
employment. Private investment indicators also showed a continued expansion. Public spending 
expanded on the back of both procurement of goods and services and compensation of civil 
servants, while public investment expanded on account of investment by state -owned 
enterprises such as the State Railways of Thailand, the Metropolitan Electricity Authority, and 
the Provincial El ectricity Authorit y. 
The continued economic expansion extended the positive spillovers to the labor market , 
supporting improvements in purchasing power of households.  
The continued economic expansion benefited employment and household income which 
supporte d the improvements in purchasing power of households (Chart 2.1 and 2.2). 
Employment of non-farm households  recorded healthy growth in both the construction and 
manufacturing sectors while employment in the services sector declined but still remained at a 
high level. Going forward, the U.S. trade protectionism measures could impact employment in 
some industries, such as automobiles and electronics.  However, the companies in these Monetary Policy Report December 2018   11 sectors still retained permanent workers but increased adoption of automation in place of 
temporary workers. Meanwhile, the slower growth of number of tourists had not yet affected 
employment in hotel business. Overall income of non -farm workers improved across almost 
all sectors and all income groups. Earnings of middle -income and high-income households 
continued to increase.  
Employment of farm households  remained stable. Farm income slightly contracted 
from the previous quarter but was still higher than the same period last year on account of 
increased outputs in almost all product categories. Some crop prices fell due to large supplies 
in rubber and palm  oil. However, government relief measures for rice, rubber and oil palm 
farmers partly shored up those of purchasing power. In 2019, increasing risk of drought due 
to the effect of El Nino could reduce some crop production such as rice and sugar cane.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Headline inflation declined mainly due to the fall in energy prices. Core inflation declined as 
the high base effect of excise tax increases on tobacco and alcoholic beverages was over .      
Head line inflation  averaged at 1.09 
percent over the first two months of the fourth 
quarter of 2018, down from 1.47 percent in the 
previous quarter (Chart 2.3). The drop was due 
to decelerated growth of energy prices as 
domestic retail  oil prices fell in line with global 
oil prices. Fresh food prices declined to a 
lesser degree than the previous quarter as 
prices of meat and eggs gradually rose after 
alleviation of excess supply.   
Core inflation  averaged at 0.72 
percent over the first two months of the fourth 
quarter of 201 8, down from 0.78 percent in the previous quarter. Core inflation in the food 
category rose slightly (Chart 2.4) due to increased prices of processed foods. Core inflation in 
the non -food categories dropped (Chart 2.5) as the high base effect of excise tax  increases 
on tobacco and alcoholic beverages was over. In other categories, prices rose slowly as demand  
pressures gradually increased. Moreover, structural factors including rising e -commerce 
Index, seasonally adjusted (3 -month moving average)
(Jan 2014 = 100 )
6090120150
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulReal wage and salary transfers per person vial banking system*
Real total non-farm income
Real farm income
Note: *wage and salary transfer transactions are calculated from 2 databases: 
(1) Commercial banks reporting transactions to Bank of Thailand database 
which covers 90% of all retail transfer transactions and (2) Interbank 
Transaction Management and Exchange  (ITMX ) database which covers 10% 
of all retail transfer transactions.
Sources: Bank of Thailand, Office of Agricultural Economics, National 
Statistical Office, Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.1 Overall purchasing power gradually improved
Household income indicators
Oct 18
Index, seasonally adjusted ( 3-month moving average)
(Jan 2014 = 100)
80859095100105110
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulTotal Employment Non-Agricultural Agricultural
Source: National Statistical OfficeChart 2.2 Overall employment continued to grow
Employment indicators
Nov 18
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Fresh food (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
Note: ( ) denotes share in inflation baskets
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 2.3 Headline inflation decreased from the previous 
quarter mainly due to energy prices
Inflation target (2.5  1.5%)Headline inflation and inflation target
Oct-NovMonetary Policy Report December 2018   12 trends, intensified price competition, and lower production co sts from higher production 
efficiency weighed down core inflation in non -food categories.  
Short -term (one -year ahead) inflation expectations  according to the survey of 
businesses in November 2018 stood at 2.0 percent, unchanged from the previous quarter. 
Inflation expectations of professional forecasters in December 2018 stood at 1.3 percent, 
down slightly from 1.4 percent in the previous quar ter. Long -term (five -year ahead) inflation 
expectations  according to the survey of professional forecasters in October 2018 stood at 
1.8 percent, down from the previous survey (April 2018).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short -term money market rates remained close to the policy rate, except short -term 
government bond yields which were somewhat volatile mainly on account of domestic 
factors. Medium -term and long -term government bond yields rose in the beginning of the 
fourth quarter, mainly in tandem with U.S. government bond yields, but gradually fell in 
the latter half of November owing to domestic factors and investor concerns over external 
factors.   
 
 
 
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Non-alcoholic beverages
Seasoning and condiments
Prepared foodPercentContribution* to food -in-core inflationChart 2.4 Food -in-core inflation ( 28% of core inflation) 
increased slightly mainly due to prepared food prices
Note: *Contribution to core inflation shows decomposition of core inflation 
changes according to weights of each good in core inflation basket
Source :Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandOct-Nov
0.00.51.01.5
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Tobacco and alcoholic beverages
Apparel and footwear
Recreation and reading
Medical and personal care
Transport and communication
Housing and furnishingPercentChart 2.5 Non-food in core inflation (72% of core inflation) 
decreased as the base effect of the excise tax increases on 
tobacco and alcoholic beverages last year waned off
Contribution* to non -food in core inflation
Note: *Contribution to core inflation shows decomposition of core inflation 
changes according to weights of each good in core inflation basket
Source :Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandOct-Nov
Table 2.1 Inflation
2017 2018
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct-Nov
Headline Consumer Price Index (Headline CPI) 0.69 1.25 0.10 0.45 0.88 0.64 1.31 1.47 1.09
Core Consumer Price Index (Core CPI) 0.73 0.66 0.47 0.49 0.61 0.61 0.76 0.78 0.72
Raw food 1.54 0.61 -2.99 -2.25 -0.80 -1.04 -0.35 -0.82 -0.58
Energy -1.06 6.69 2.67 4.86 5.24 3.01 7.309.105.70
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommerceAnnual percentage change2016Monetary Policy Report December 2018   13  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Most short -term money market rates  remained close to the  policy rate in the fourth 
quarter of 2018. Short -term government bond yields  rose rapidly at the beginning of the 
quarter (Chart 2.6), partly on account of higher supply of 3 -month and 6 -month bonds issued 
by the Bank of Thailand. However, short -term gove rnment bond yields declined in November, 
partly on account of higher demand as a large amount of Bank of Thailand bonds would reach 
maturity in December. However, prior to the 8th/2018 Monetary Policy Committee meeting, 
short -term government bond yields ro se sharply reflecting market expectations of a policy rate 
increase. Medium -term and long -term government bond yields  rose in the beginning of 
the quarter (Chart 2.7) following the 10 -year U.S. government bond yield which reached the 
highest point in the past seven years. The rise partly reflected market views on the opinion of 
several members of the Federal Open Market Committee in favor of policy rate hikes. 
However, in the latter half of November, yields on medium -term and long -term government 
bonds reduced on account of: (1) increased  demand for some government bond series 
following the weight adjustment in the globa l bond index, (2) economic outturns for the third 
quarter of 2018 below market expectations, and (3) market concerns over the U.S. trade 
protectionism measures and political uncertainties in Europe, particularly Brexit negotiations 
and the passage of the I talian government budget bill.      
Corporate bond yields  slightly edged up in 
line with government bond yields and the slight 
increase in credit spread.2/ Cost of financing 
through commercial banks , as represented in the 
new loan rate (NLR)3/ also remained  low, indicating 
financial conditions that remained accommodative 
(Chart 2.8).      
                                           
2/  A credit spread is the difference between corporate and government bond yields with  the same tenure, reflecting 
an assessment on corporate bond issuers’ default risks.  
3/  NLR is calculated based on a weighted average of interest rates for new loan contracts extended by 14 Thai 
commercial banks (excluding consumer loans and loans to financial intermediaries). The data covers loans of  
value of 20 million baht or higher for all purposes and terms and includes both secured and non -secured loans. 
Moreover, interest rates used in the calculation refer to the mid -rate between the lowest and  the highest rates 
in each loan contract.  
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y% p.a.Chart 2.7 Medium -term government bond yields increased 
during the beginning of the quarter following US treasury 
yields before gradually decreasing due to increased demand 
by foreign investors, lower -than-expected growth outturns in 
Q3, and growing investor concerns over uncertainties on the 
external front 
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA ) 
(data as of 18 December 2018)2016 2017Government bond yields
20182.63
2.50
2.26
1.96
1.85
1.77
1.001.251.501.75
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct% p.a. policy rate  O/N Interbank
1 month BIBOR 1 month Gov. bond
3 month Gov. bond 6 month Gov. bondChart 2.6 Short -term interest rates remained close to the 
policy rate, except short -term government bond yields  which
fluctuated due mainly to domestic factors
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA ) 
(data as of 18 December 2018)2016 2017Short -term rates in financial markets
20181.501.65
1.40
1.381.55
1.55
Char 2.  New Loan Rate (NLR) stabilized at low level
Source: Bank of Thailand (data as of October 2018)New Loan Rate  
7.08
6.28
5.03
4.08
2.75
1.50
02468
Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan Jul Jan JulMLR NLR Policy rate% p.a.
2013 2017 2014 2015 2016 2018Oct 18Monetary Policy Report December 2018   14 Private credit extended to both businesses and households accelerated in line with the 
continued economic expansion.  
Private credit4/ continued to accelerate in the third quarter and in October 2018. 
Private credit expanded at 6.3 percent at the end of October from the same period last year 
(Chart 2.9), up from a 5.4 percent growth recorded at the end of the second quarter of 2018. 
Business credit  growth was driven by loan extended to large corporates, particularly in the 
commerce and service sectors, and SMEs which had relatively large credit lines such as real 
estate sector. Household credit continued to rise across all loan purposes in line with  growing 
private consumption.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The net issuance of corporate bonds  continued to increase in the third quarter and 
in October 2018 from the previous quarter, driven by funding of companies in the real estate, 
IT and communication, and energy sectors. In addition, the net corporate bond outstanding 
expanded 13.9 percent fro m the same period of last year (Chart 2.10). Funding through the 
equity market  continued to increase in the third quarter and in October 2018, especially in 
the energy and utilities sectors.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
4/ Outstanding credit of other depositary corporations (ODCs), namely commercial banks, specialized financial 
institutions, finance companies, savings cooperatives, and market mutual funds.  
Source:  Bank of ThailandChart  2.9 Private credit accelerated for both businesses 
and households
Growth of private credit
Note: 1) Private credit includes credit to other depository corporations (ODCs) namely 
commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, finance companies, saving 
cooperatives, and money market mutual funds
2) The data of ODCs credit outstanding to business and household sectors since 
January 2015 are revised following the improvement of processing system for 
more accurate and comprehensive ODCs credits dataPercentage change from the same period last year
0246810
Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2018Jul Jan
2018JulBusiness credit Household credit Total private credit
7.2
5.76.3
Chart 2.10  Overall financing continued to expand
Growth of corporate bond outstanding and business credit
Percentage change from the same period last year
Note:  Business credit covers lending activities of Other Depository 
Corporation (ODCs) 
Sources: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) and Bank of Thailand010203040
Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Outstanding of corporate bond
Business credit*
Total financing
7.28.913.9
Chart  2.11  Thailand’s real policy rate   slightly increased but 
remained accommodative overall. The rate was moderate 
compared with other countries
Real policy rates *
-4-2024
US EU JP UK NZ KR ID MY PH IN THPercent
Note : *Calculated from policy rate subtracted by one -year-ahead inflation  
expectation according to a survey by Consensus Economics 
(as of  10 December  2018)
Sources : Bloomberg,  Consensus Economics, calculation by Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December 2018   15 Going forward, financial conditions were expected to remai n accommodative.  
The real policy interest rate increased slightly but still remained accommodative overall and 
was moderated compare with other countries (Chart 2.11). Meanwhile, costs of financing 
through commercial banks, as reflected in the new loan rat e (NLR), would stabilize at a low 
level. Financial institutions5/ were expected to tighten credit standards in the fourth quarter, 
particularly for loans extended to SME, to comply with the single financial account scheme. 
However, financial institutions w ould still maintain their credit standards for loans extended to 
households with exception of auto hire purchase loans, in which some financial institutions 
would somewhat loosen the credit standards. This was due to intense competition in the auto 
leasing  market following an expiration of the first -car scheme’s five -year holding period.  
In the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2018, the baht depreciated against the U.S. dollar 
and the nominal effective exchange rate also depreciated, driven by external fa ctors.  
In the fourth quarter of 2018, the baht depreciated against the U.S. dollar  relative to 
the end of the previous quarter (Chart 2.12). In particular, in October, the baht weakened 
against the U.S. dollar owing to market concerns over the U.S. trade protectionism measures 
and political uncertainties in Europe. The baht depreciation was more pronounced than 
regional currencies, partly due to its appreciation at a faster pace than these currencies in the 
previous period. However, since November, the bah t strengthened slightly as the U.S. dollar 
weakened after concerns over the U.S. trade protectionism measures alleviated and markets 
expected the U.S. policy rate increases to be more gradual. Consequently on 18 December 
2018, the baht closed at 32.74 to t he U.S. dollar, down 1.2 percent from the end of the previous 
quarter.  
The nominal effective exchange rate (NEER)  index stood at 117.11 on 18 December 
2018, a 1.1 percent depreciation from the end of the previous quarter. The movement was in 
line with the baht depreciation against currencies of most trading partners, particularly regional 
currencies, as central banks  in the region raised policy rates and implemented domestic and 
external stabilization measures to enhance sentiments of foreign investors (Chart 2.13). As 
the end of November 2018, the  real effective exchange rate (REER)  declined around 2.2 
percent from t he end of the previous quarter. Going forward, exchange rates would likely 
remain volatile due to uncertainties over monetary -fiscal policies of the major economies, the 
U.S. trade protectionism measures, geopolitical risks, particularly uncertainty over t he Brexit 
negotiations.   
 
 
 
 
 
                                           
5/ Survey of credit cond itions for the third quarter of 2018 and outlook for the fourth quarter of 2018.  
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
OctREER
USDTHB (RHS)DXYNEER
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 18 December 2018)2015 2016 2017 2018Appreciation
Chart 2.12 The baht depreciated against the U.S. dollar as 
the U.S. dollar strengthened
USDTHB, NEER, DXY
Baht per U.S. dollar Index
-4%-3%-2%-1%0%1%2%3%4%
GBP
EUR
KRW
THB
TWD
MYR
AUD
SGD
CNY
JPY
PHP
INR
IDRPercentChart 2.13 The baht depreciated against the U.S. dollar, 
while some regional currencies appreciated 
(18 Dec 18 compared to 28 Sep 18)
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollar
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 18 December 2018)Monetary Policy Report December 2018   16 Financial stability remained sound overall. However, there remained pockets of risks that 
warranted  monitoring. These included: (1) continued search -for-yield behavior particularly 
in the case of saving cooperatives and large corporates, (2) fragilities in the mortgage loan 
market and an oversupply of property in the real estate market, (3) elevated, albeit gradually 
declining, household debt and worsening debt serviceability of certain households and small 
enterprises, and (4)  volatilities in global financial markets which could affect financing costs 
of the private sector.  
Thailand’s financial stability remained sound overall. External stability continued to be 
strong, as indicated by the country’s sustained current account su rpluses and high level of 
international reserves, while the external debt to GDP ratio remained low6/. These factors 
combined to cushion the Thai economy against volatilities in global financial markets. Financial 
institutions maintained robust financial p ositions, as reflected in high levels of capital buffers 
of commercial banks to cushion against risks stemming from deterioration in credit quality. 
Nevertheless, there remained pockets of risks that warranted monitoring going forward. Such 
risks were as f ollows.  
 (1) The continued search -for-
yield behavior under the environment of 
persistently low interest rates could lead 
to underpricing of risks.   Although systemic 
risks remained limited, there remained issues 
that warranted close monitoring. Such risks 
included, first, a search -for-higher -yield of 
saving cooperatives. Consequently, saving 
cooperatives’ assets and  deposits continued 
to expand at a  high growth (Chart 2.14) 
despite slowing somewhat after regulatory 
authorities collaborated to enhance supervision  
standards. Meanwhile, credit risk and liquidity  
risk warranted monitoring owing to higher 
short -term borrowings by some large saving 
coopera tives for investment in debt instruments. In addition, increased borrowings among 
saving cooperatives heightened their interconnection, resulting in overall increased systemic 
risks in the saving cooperatives sector. Second, large corporates having greater  connectedness  
with the financial system increasingly raised funds through bond and equities markets given a 
prolonged period of low interest rates. In addition, many of these companies expanded non -
core business investments and outward direct investments.  Furthermore, the business 
structure of such companies had become increasingly complicated, thus resulting in more 
difficult risk assessment and possibly underpricing of risk. Third, although offshore investments  
through foreign investment funds (FIF) had contracted in the recent period on concerns over 
volatilities in global financial markets, concentration risks remained as FIF investments were 
concentrated in five major countries.   
 
                                           
6/ The latest data as of Q3 2018 was 35.6 percent.  
Chart 2.14 Saving cooperatives are more inclined to search 
for yield behavior, especially in debt securities and loans to 
other cooperatives
%YoY
Note : Saving cooperatives were subjected to tighter regulation by government 
since H2/2017
Source: Cooperative Auditing Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to growth of savings cooperatives’ assets
051015
Dec-14 Dec-15 Dec-16 Dec-17 Jun-18 Sep-18
Loans to other cooperatives Securities Other Than Shares
Shares and Other Equity Currency and Deposits
Loans to members Total AssetsMonetary Policy Report December 2018   17 (2) Signs of vulnerabilities in the 
mortgage loan market remained in the real 
estate sector.   Financial institutions’ competition  
in mortgage loan extension with a willingness 
to bear higher risks resulted in loosening 
credit standards. This was reflected in a 
higher median of the loan -to-income (LTI) 
ratio of borrowers and a rising shares of 
accounts with LTI ratio over five times in the 
third quarter of 2018 compared to the same 
period last year ( Chart 2.15). In the period 
ahead, the effect of the new7/ macroprudentia l 
me asure on the property sector and the 
quality of mortgage loans warranted monitoring. Prior to the effective of the regulation on April 
1, 2019, demand for residences was expected to trend up owing to an acceleration of the 
purchase of a second or more homes. In the meantime, developers may also employ active 
marketing strategies to induce customers to transfer ownerships before the new regulation 
come into effect. Furthermore, an o versupply in the property market still warranted 
monitoring.  In the previous periods, foreign demand, especially from the Chinese buyers, 
had played an increasing role in the condominium market. Close monitoring was, therefore, 
warranted as such demand may  subside if the Chinese economy were to slow down.  
 (3) Household debt remained high,  
albeit gradually declining, while debt 
serviceability of some households and 
small enterprises continued to deteriorate . 
The ratio of household debt to GDP declined 
slightly in the second quarter of 2018 (Chart 
2.16) but remained elevated when compare 
with other emerging economies  and had yet  
to show clear signs of deleveraging going 
forward.  In particular, (1) there might be an 
acceleration in mortgage loans before the 
new regulations come into effect, and (2) 
credit standards on auto hire purchase loans 
became looser due to intensified competition among lenders. Besides, persistently low interest 
rates induced households t o incur new debts, which could weigh on future consumption and 
debt serviceability and result in limited households’ cushion against economic volatilities. 
Overall credit quality remained stable as indicated by the NPL ratio of commercial banks in 
the thir d quarter of 2018 which was stable at 2.94 percent. However, the NPL ratio in mortgage 
loan remained high while in auto hire purchase and credit card started to trend up. Financial 
positions of some small enterprises particularly  those adversely affected b y structural changes 
remained vulnerable, such as rice mills, wholesale  and retail businesses. These were reflected 
in the sustained negative operating profit margins  (OPM) and the interest coverage ratio (ICR) of 
                                           
7/ See further at  https://www.bot.or.th/Thai/PressandSpeeches/Press/News 2561/ n7261 t.pdf 
Chart 2.15 The ratio of mortgage loan to income  (Loan -to-
income : LTI) and a number of accounts with LTI  higher than 
five times in the third quarter of 2018 increased from last year
Note:  Calculations from database of commercial banks’ new mortgage loans 
Source : Bank of ThailandShare of no. of accounts ( % 
12 131725 27 31
012345
020406080100
20132014201520162017 Q3 2018LTI >5 times
>4-5 times
>3-4 times
>2-3 times
>1-2 times
LTI <=1 time
median LTI
(RHS)Mortgage loan -to-income ratio
times
Chart 2.16 The ratio of household debt to GDP had yet to 
show clear sign of deleveraging
60657075808590
507090110130150170
2011Q1 2012Q1 2013Q1 2014Q1 2015Q1 2016Q1 2017Q1 2018Q1Private debt (excluding financial institutions)
Corporate debt (RHS)
Household debt (RHS)
Source: Bank of Thailand% of GDPThe ratio of private credit to GDP
% of GDPMonetary Policy Report December 2018   18  small companies8/ which were consistent with the NPL ratio of commercial banks’ SME loan 
portfolios which remained high at  4.7 percent.9/   
 (4) Volatilities related to capital flows heightened due to concerns over the U.S. 
trade protectionism measures, the outlook for the  U.S. policy rate increases, and 
uncertainties pertaining to the Brexit negotiations.  These factors could trigger yield 
snapbacks and affect short -term debt rollovers. Although the majority of corporate bonds 
issued had A or higher credit ratings, the upwa rd trends in interest rates in global financial 
markets could lead to higher cost of financing through bond markets and affect financial 
positions of some companies that had to roll over their financing. This was particularly in the 
case of businesses with  low or unrated credit ratings which mostly were real estate companies.  
2.2 Outlook  for the Thai economy   
Under the Committee’s assessment, the Thai economy was projected to record 
slower growth rates at 4.2 and 4.0 percent in 2018 and 2019, respectively, lower than 
the projections in the previous Monetary Policy Report.   Key growth drivers stemming 
from exter nal demand were expected to moderate as merchandise and services export growth 
would be lower than previously expected, consistent with slower growth in global trade volume 
and trading partners’ economies. Meanwhile, domestic demand would remain a key grow th 
driver, especially on the back of continued private consumption growth. The inflation projection 
was broadly unchanged. Headline inflation slightly edged down following declining crude oil prices.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of the key forecast assumptions  
 Trading  partner economies  were projected to exhibit slower growth throughout the 
forecast horizon due to lower -than-expected growth outturns in the third quarter of 2018 and a 
decline in domestic demand growth. Moreover, exports growth would also slow down  despite 
having accelerated in late 2018 prior to the full implementation of the U.S. tariff measures. 
Exports would also expect to see some effects of the U.S. trade protectionism measures on 
global trade volume and trading partner economies.  
                                           
8/ As reflected by the ICR and OPM of 25th -percentile small -sized listed companies which have been in the negative 
territory since 2013.  
9/ The average ratio of NPL for SMEs during 2013 -present was 3.9 percent.  
Percent 2017 * 2018 2019
GDP growth 3.9 4.2 (4.4) 4.0 (4.2)
Headline inflation 0.7 1.1 (1.1) 1.0 (1.1)
Core inflation 0.6 0.7 (0.7) 0.9 (0.8)
Note: * Outturn 
            ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2018             
Sources: NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimatesTable 2.2 Forecast summaryMonetary Policy Report December 2018   19  
 
 
 
  The federal funds rate  was along the normalization path as previously projected. The 
Fed was expected to raise the rate four times in total in 2018 and twice more in 2019 while 
gradually reducing its balance sheet according to the announced plan .   
 Asian curr encies (excluding the Chinese yuan) , throughout the forecast horizon, were 
revised to be weaker than the previous assessment after the outturns of Asian currencies during 
the fourth quarter were weaker than expected. This was a result of larger -than-expect ed impact 
from a currency crisis in some emerging market economies. Nevertheless, Asian currencies were 
expected to gradually appreciate in the period ahead in line with economic fundamentals of the 
economies in the region . 
 The Dubai crude oil price  was revised down throughout the forecast horizon on account 
of the global economic slowdown and the higher projection of crude oil supply. The supply of oil 
would increase after the U.S. partially lifted sanctions on Iran’s oil exports to eight of Iran’s major 
oil importers, including China, Japan, South Korea, and India, for six months.  
 Farm income  was revised down throughout the forecast horizon. Agricultural output, 
especially for in -season rice and sugarcane, was expected to decline following drought.  Moreover, 
agricultural prices of some products, such as rubber and palm oil, was projected to fall on the 
back of rising global supply.  
 Public spending at current prices  was revised down throughout the forecast horizon 
mainly due to lower investment spend ing. Investment by central government was revised down 
due to delayed construction of the Bang Yai -Kanchanaburi motorway project. Moreover, delays 
in drafting the master plans under the National Strategy prompted government agencies to defer 
obligation of funds for some projects. For state -owned enterprises, investments were revised 
down due to the deferment of the second phase of the dual -track railway project which was under 
review with regard to project priority. Government consumption was projected to g row in line with 
the previous assessment.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table:  Summary of forecast assumptions
2017* 2018 2019
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel)53.1 69.8 (70.3) 66.0 (69.8)
Farm income (% YoY)1.5 0.8 (2.9) -0.4 (2.3)
Government consumption at current price (billion baht )1/2,532 2,645 (2,656) 2,786 (2,786)
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/926 977 (992) 1,056 (1,082)
Fed funds rate (% at year end) 1.38 2.38 (2.38) 2.88 (3.13)
Trading partners’ GDP growth (% YoY)2/3.9 3.6 (3.8) 3.4 (3.5)
Regional currencies (excl. China) vis-à-vis the U.S. dollar (index)3/ 155.7 153.9 (153.2) 158.7 (153.8)
Notes: 1/ Assumption includes spending on infrastructure investment plans
              2/ Weighted by each trading partner 's share in Thailand 's total exports
                     3/ Increasing index represents depreciation , decreasing index represents appreciation
               * Outturns
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2018Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report December 2018   20 The value of merchandise exports was expected to slow down due to the impact from the 
U.S. trade protectionism measures and the slowdown in global trade volume.  
The value of merchandise exports in 2018 and 2019 was expected to record 
slower growth than the assessment in the previous Monetary Policy Report . The 
downward revision was due to declining export prices following a fall in crude oil prices as well 
as lowe r export volume. In September 2018, merchandise exports contracted due to a 
temporary factor pertaining to natural disaster in Japan, Hong Kong and the Philippines. 
Moreover, external demand would moderate in the period ahead as a result of (1) U.S. trade 
protectionism measures and the down cycle of electronic products that would weigh on global 
trade volume, and (2) a slowdown in external demand from trading partners consistent with 
economic conditions in many countries (Chart 2.17 and 2.18). However, expo rters of some 
manufacturing industries, such as electronics parts and high -quality polyethylene resins, 
started to gain more benefits from redirected orders and relocation of production from China 
to Thailand which would support Thai exports going forward.  The value of merchandise 
exports was projected to expand at 7.0 and 3.8 percent in 2018 and 2019, respectively, 
down from the projections of 9.0 and 4.3 percent in the previous Monetary Policy 
Report . 
Under the Committee’s assessment, although concerns o ver the U.S. trade 
protectionism measures alleviated in the short term, there remained uncertainties which could 
put pressures on international trade and investment, which would in turn affect Thai exports 
in both direct and indirect ways. Thus, the Commit tee would closely monitor developments of 
trade policies and negotiations, their impact on supply chains, and intensifying competition 
through trade diversion which could affect Thai businesses.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exports of services were projected to exhibit slower growth due to a sluggish recovery in 
Chinese tourist figures.  
Overall exports of services were projected to exhibit slower growth than 
previously assessed due to lower -than -expected tourism receipts resulted by fewer 
number of tourists and lower spe nding per tourist.  The projected number of foreign 
tourists was revised down to 38.0 and 40.0 million for 2018 and 2019, respectively, from the 
Chart  2.18 Merchandise exports expanded across almost all 
export destinations
708090100110120130
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18ASEAN (25.2) US (11.2)
China (12.5) EU (10.1)
Japan (9.3)
Note: Numbers in ( ) represent share in total exports in 2017
Source: Customs Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandValue of merchandise exports, by export destination
Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)
Oct 18
Chart 2.17 Merchandise exports continued to expand across 
various product categories, except electrical appliances to 
the U.S. which declined following the impacts of the U.S. trade 
protectionism measures on imports of solar cells and large 
washing machines
406080100120140160
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Jan-18Electrical appliances (5.6)
Vehicle parts (6.5)
Electronics (15.0)
Petroleum-related (11.5)
Agro-manu (12.3)
Note: Number in () denotes share to total exports in 2017
Source: Customs Department, calculations by Bank of ThailandSeasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Value of merchandise exports, by product category
Oct 18Monetary Policy Report December 2018   21 estimates of 38.3 and 40.6 million in the previous Monetary Policy Report . The downward 
adjustment was mainly du e to Chinese tourists particularly in October 2018 when the Chinese 
tourist arrivals contracted 19.8 percent from the same period last year although the number of 
foreign tourists in the third quarter of 2018 remained close to the estimates. This reflected  
more severe and longer -than-expected impacts from Phuket tour boat sinking incident in early 
July which particularly led to a large contraction of tour groups. Such impact was indeed 
observed in a broader area in addition to coastal tourism destinations w hich were initially 
assessed to be the main area. On the other hand, free independent travelers (FIT) continued 
to exhibit robust growth. Moreover, Chinese tourists were additionally affected by China’s 
economic slowdown and the weaker Chinese yuan. Howeve r, there were some signs of 
improvements in Chinese tourists after the government promptly enhanced safety standards 
in the tourism sector to boost confidence, put in place marketing incentives such as the free 
visa-on-arrival for 21 countries, and request ed collaboration with the private sector to offer 
promotion campaigns at marketplaces. Such initiatives were expected to restore tourism 
growth in the period ahead.  
The curr ent account was projected to record a 33.1 billion U.S. dollars surplus 
in 2018, d own from the estimated surplus of 35.4 billion U.S. dollars  in the previous 
Monetary Policy Report . This revision was due to the downward revision of the value of 
merchandise and services exports. The projection for the current account surplus in 2019 
was 34.5 billion U.S. dollars, down from the estimated surplus of 36.3 U.S. billion dollars  
due to the declined value of services exports.  
Private consumption was projected to continue expanding.  
Private consumption growth was expected to continue in almost all categories, 
especially durable and semi -durable goods.  In particular, car sales expanded significantly 
due partly to the fading effect of the first -car scheme with its five -year car holding requirement. 
Private consumption growth would also be supporte d by increasingly broad -based non -farm 
income, continued improvements in employment in major sectors, as well as additional 
supports from government measures such as the state welfare cards project. However, private 
consumption growth was expected to moder ate somewhat in the period ahead due to a 
number of factors: a high -base effect of durable consumption in 2018, a slowdown in farm 
income following the downward trend of agricultural prices, and a slowdown in non -farm 
income for some sectors following the outlook for merchandise and services exports.  
Moreover, elevated household debt would affect households to allocate part of their income 
for debt repayment. Greater adoption of automation in place of human labor in the production 
process and low inflation  would lessen upward pressures on wages. As a result, average 
wages of Thai workers remained low and purchasing power would gradually recover in the 
period ahead.  
Public spending was expected to moderate mainly due to investment expenditure. 
Meanwhile, go vernment consumption remained close to the previous estimates.  
Public spending was expected to be lower than the previous assessment due to 
delays in public investment by both the central government and state -owned 
enterprises . For the central government, investment was revised down partly due to the 
delayed approval of land expropriation expenses for the Bang Yai -Kanchanaburi motorway Monetary Policy Report December 2018   22 project. Moreover, delays in drafting the master plans under the National Strategy prompted 
government agencies to defer ob ligation of funds in some projects for reviewing consistency 
of their budgeting plans. For state -owned enterprises, investment was revised down due to 
the deferment of the second phase of the dual -track rail project which was during the process 
of project priority review despite increased investment expenditure in 2020 according to the 
third phase of the Laemchabang Port Development Project by Port Authority of Thailand. 
Meanwhile, government consumption growth was projected close to the previous assessment .  
Private investment was projected to expand.  
Private investment growth projections were largely unchanged, but would 
gradually improve mainly on the back of machinery and equipment investment . Drivers 
would come from upgrades to production efficiency an d capacity expansion as well as the 
relocation of production base to Thailand. Such factors would compensate for the moderating 
investment trend owing to investor concerns over trade protectionism measures as well as 
delays in public investment. Additional  factors supporting the investment outlook were (1) 
special measures by the Board of Investment (BOI) to boost investment and (2) the public -
private partnership (PPP) in infrastructure investment projects in the Easter Economic Corridor 
(EEC) including the  three -airport high -speed rail project. Progress of such projects would be 
monitored going forward.  
The inflation outlook was expected to be in line with the previous assessment . 
Looking ahead, headline inflation 
was projected to be lower than the 
assess ment in the previous Monetary 
Policy Report  due to lower  crude oil prices 
despite some offset by higher fuel 
adjustment surcharge (Ft). Core inflation 
was expected to slightly increase due to 
higher bus fares announced by the Central 
Land Transport Control Board on 14 
December 2018 and gradual improvement 
in dem and-pull inflationary pressures, 
partly reflecting that output gap would 
gradually close in the period ahead (Chart 2.19). The Committee thus projected headline 
inflation to be 1.1 and 1.0 percent for 2018 and 2019, respectively, and core inflation to 
be 0.7 and 0.9 percent for 2018 and 2019, respectively.   
Risks to the growth and inflation projections were expected to tilt more downward.  
Under the Committee’s assessment , there were increased downside risks to the 
baseline growth and inflation projections w hen compared to the assessments in the 
previous Monetary Policy Report . These were reflected by the fan chart that tilted more 
downward throughout the forecast horizon (Chart 2.20) primarily due to risks on the external 
front as the probability of the no -deal Brexit heightened. Moreover, the possibilities that the 
Thai economy would underperform the baseline projection remained.  First, impacts of 
the U.S. trade protectionism measures could be larger than expected. Second, Thailand’s 
trading partner economie s could expand at lower rates than anticipated in the case of 
-4-2024
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 201 2020%Chart 2.19 Output gapMonetary Policy Report December 2018   23 intensifying global geopolitical tensions. Third, private consumption growth could slow down 
due to an uneven recovery of domestic purchasing power especially for farm income. Fourth, 
public exp enditure could be lower -than-expected owing to constraints in budget disbursement 
and project execution. On the other hand, there were possibilities that the Thai economy 
would outperform the baseline forecast . First, The Chinese economic slowdown could al so 
be less severe than expected. Second, domestic spending could be higher than expected on 
the back of public infrastructure investment and PPP projects as well as government measures 
to help stimulate private consumption. Meanwhile, risks to the forecast s of headline and 
core inflation were expected to tilt more downward in line  (Chart 2.21 and Chart 2.22) 
with increased downside risks to the growth projections and to oil prices.  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Chart 2.20 Growth forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-20246810
-20246810
2015 2016 2017 2018 201 2020% YoY
Chart 2.21 Headline inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-3-2-1012345
-3-2-1012345
2015 2016 2017 2018 201 2020Headline inflation target 2.5  1.5%% YoY
Chart 2.22 Core inflation forecast
Note: Fan chart covers 90% of the probability distribution
-10123
-10123
2015 2016 2017 2018 201 2020% YoY
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2017* 2018 2019
GDP growth 3.9 4.2 (4.4) 4.0 (4.2)
Domestic demand 2.1 4.0 (3.9) 4.0 (3.8)
     Private consumption 3.2 4.7 (4.2) 4.0 (3.7)
     Private investment 1.7 3.6 (3.7) 4.5 (4.5)
     Government consumption 0.5 2.1 (2.3) 2.6 (2.2)
     Public investment -1.2 4.6 (6.1) 6.6 (7.7)
Exports of goods and services 5.5 3.7 (5.5) 4.1 (4.1)
imports of goods and services 6.8 7.6 (7.5) 3.2 (3.3)
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 51.1 33.1 (35.4) 34.5 (36.3)
Value of merchandise exports 9.8 7.0 (9.0) 3.8 (4.3)
Value of merchandise imports 13.2 15.3 (16.9) 3.8 (5.6)
Number of foreign tourists (million person) 35.4 38.0 (38.3) 40.0 (40.6)
Note: *Outturns
             ( ) Monetary Policy Report September 2018Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report December 2018   24 3. Monetary Policy Decision  
The Committee assessed that the Thai economy would continue to expand at a level 
consistent with its potential. Headline and core inflation were expected to be broadly in 
line with the previous assessment. Financial stability remained sound overall but there 
remained a need to monitor risks that might pose vulnerabilities to the financial system in 
the future.  
The Committee placed great emphasis on the strength and continuation of economic 
growth, development of headline inflation, and preserving financial stability. The  Committee 
assessed that the economy was expected to continue gaining traction driven by domestic 
demand momentum, despite the slowdown in external demand. Nevertheless, the possibility 
that the Thai economy would expand slower than the baseline projection  increased, due 
mainly to risks on the external front. Inflation would gradually rise. Meanwhile, there remained 
a need to monitor pockets of risks to financial stability arising from a prolonged low interest 
rate environment.  
1. Economic growth. The Thai  economy was expected to continue expanding at a 
rate consistent with its potential. In particular, private consumption expanded on account of 
improvements in the labor market for both employment and income, as well as government 
measures aiming to enhance  household purchasing power. However, a relatively high level of 
household debt remained a factor weighing on private consumption. Furthermore, private 
investment would likely expand, partly benefited from investment aiming to improve efficiency 
and expand  production capacity and the relocation of production base of certain industries to 
Thailand. Moreover, there were also supporting factors from the EEC and the PPP projects. 
However, public expenditure would contribute less as an economic driver due to del ays in 
some investment projects and deferring of obligation of funds for some projects by government 
agencies to await for adjusting their work plans to align with the delayed drafting of master 
plans under the National Strategy. Government consumption out look was broadly unchanged. 
However, external demand momentum would slow down as exports of some products were 
affected by trade protectionism measures, as well as a consequence of a down cycle of 
electronic industry and a slowdown of trading partner econo mies, especially China which had 
great linkages with the Thai economy. Exports of services would likely slow down following a 
declining number of Chinese tourists although there were some signs of slight improvement 
in Chinese tourist figures. Nevertheless , risks that the Thai economy would underperform the 
baseline projection increased due mainly to risks of the no -deal Brexit.  
2. Inflation developments.  Annual average of headline inflation for 2018 and 2019 
were projected to be within target, but there wa s a possibility that headline inflation might fall 
below the baseline projection in line with risks to growth forecasts and oil prices that might be 
lower than expected. Core inflation was expected to somewhat increase, partly due to upward 
adjustment of b us fares, as well as gradually rising demand -pull inflationary pressures, as 
reflected in various indicators including trimmed mean and principal component indicators. 
(Chart 3.1) This was partly resulted from structural changes which contributed to more 
persistent inflation than in the past. Meanwhile, inflation expectations  according to surveys 
from businesses and professional forecasters were largely unchanged from the previous 
quarter. (Chart 3.2)  Monetary Policy Report December 2018   25  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The build -up of risks to financial stability . The Committee viewed that financial 
stability remained sound overall, but there was a need to monitor certain pockets of risks that 
had yet to show clear signs of improvement and might pose vulnerabilities to the financial 
system in the future. These risks included (1) search -for-yield behavior which could lead 
to greater underpricing of risks given a prolonged low interest rate environment.  This 
was seen, for instance, in a continued expansion in both deposit and investment  assets  of 
saving coop eratives which continued to provide high returns to members, despite some 
decelerated asset growth after an enhancement of regulations on saving cooperatives. In 
addition, greater linkages among saving cooperatives, which resulted from increased lending 
activities among each other, heightened systemic risks in the cooperative system. Moreover, 
large corporates would likely seek funding through the bond market more for investment in 
core and non -core businesses, as well as overseas businesses. This could lea d to 
underpricing of risks given low interest rate environment. More complexity of these business 
structures caused risk assessment to be more challenging. Another risk was (2) a build -up 
of vulnerabilities in the mortgage loan market in the real estate sector.  The intensified 
competition in the mortgage loan market resulted in the financial institutions willing to accept 
higher risks and looser credit standards. There remained a need to monitor the impact of the 
revision in macroprudential measure on mor tgage loans on the property market and mortgage 
loan quality, especially the adjustments of the market during the period prior to the effective 
date. Moreover, the oversupply in the property market remained an issue to be followed up. 
In particular, extern al demand, especially from China which played an increasing role in the 
condominium market, might decline if the Chinese economy slowed down. The other risk 
involved (3) the relatively high ratio of household debt to GDP despite a slow decline  
following an  expansion in all types of consumer loans, especially auto leasing. Moreover, a 
low interest rate induced household to borrow more and save less. This would affect the 
amount of future savings, especially as Thailand was entering aging society.  
Amid incre asing interconnectedness between the real economic and financial sectors, 
the monetary policy conduct aiming solely to pursue price stability would not be sufficient. It 
was deemed necessary to place emphasis on preserving financial stability as well. In t his light, 
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandChart 3  1Demand -pull inflationary pressures gradually increased
-2.0-1.00.01.02.03.04.0
Jan
2013JulJan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulHeadline inflation
Note: The shedded area shows the highest and lowest outcomes among 
different underlying inflation indicators. The indicators include 1. 
Trimmed mean (excludes goods and services with most volatile price 
changes, removing the bottom 15 percentile and the top 10 percentile), 
2. Principal component model (calculates changes in common 
statistical components that attribute to price movements across 
categories of goods and services) and 3. Core inflation excluding rent 
and government measures.Percent change from same period last yearUnderlying inflation indicators
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Chart 3 2 Inflation expectations remained broadly 
unchanged from the previous quarter
Percent change from same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Index (BSI) Survey of Bank of Thailand
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Macro -finance term structure model calculated from bond and 
macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/The public inflation expectationsMonetary Policy Report December 2018   26 the Committee viewed that a complementary use of policy instruments, both policy rate 
and macroprudential measures, would be necessary to effectively preserve financial 
stability.  Macroprudential measures could not be employed in place of approp riate monetary 
policy, as such measures were rather complementary measures to address specific pockets 
of risks. (Box: Setting appropriate framework and objectives of Thailand’s monetary policy 
amid challenges under changing economic and financial context )  
Most Committee members viewed that the need for extra accommodative monetary policy 
as in the past had reduced and thus voted to raise the policy rate to 1.75 percent at the 
meeting on December 19, 2018 to curb financial stability risks and to start buil ding policy 
space whenever appropriate.  
The Committee voted 4 to 3 to maintain the policy rate at 1.50 percent at the 
meeting on November 14, 2018. The Committee viewed that an accommodative monetary 
policy helped support economic growth and was in line w ith the inflation target. Most members 
thus saw a need to keep the policy rate unchanged. Three members, however, viewed that 
the continuation of economic growth was sufficiently robust and that prolonged monetary 
accommodation induced households and busin esses to underestimate potential changes in 
financial conditions. Thus, they voted to raise the policy rate to curb financial stability risks that 
could affect the sustainability of economic growth over the longer term and to start building 
policy space. M eanwhile, the Committee viewed that should the economic expansion continue 
and inflation move in line with target, the need for currently extra accommodative monetary 
policy would begin to decline and the importance to have policy space to cushion against 
possible risks to growth in the future would be more prominent.  
The Committee voted 5 to 2 to raise the policy rate by 0.25 percentage point to 
1.75 percent at the meeting on December 19, 2018. The Committee vi ewed that the 
economy expanded at the level consistent with its potential and headline inflation moved in 
line with target. Most members viewed that the continuation of economic growth was 
sufficiently robust and the need for extra accommodative monetary p olicy as in the past had 
reduced. Thus, the policy rate should be increased to curb financial stability risks and to build 
policy space whenever appropriate. The policy rate at 1.75 percent was deemed to remain 
conducive to the continuation of economic gro wth. (Box:  The need to hike the policy rate at 
the MPC meeting 8th/ 2018 .) Two members viewed that risks and uncertainties on the external 
front heightened and could affect growth outlook of the Thai economy in the period ahead, 
and thus saw a need to assess the clarity of such impacts on the sustainability of domestic 
growth mo mentum for some time. In addition, the implemented macroprudential measures 
had addressed certain risks in the financial stability to some extent.  
Looking ahead, the Thai economy was projected to continue to gain traction despite 
the slowdown in external demand. The Committee viewed that accommodative monetary 
policy would remain appropriate in the period ahead and that the policy rate increase would 
be gradual and not in a continuous manner as in the past. The Committee would closely 
monitor developments of economic growth, inflation, and financial stability, together with 
associated risks, in deliberating appropriate monetary policy in the period ahead.  
 Monetary Policy Report December 2018   27 Setting appropriate framework and objectives of Thailand’s monetary 
policy amid challenges under chang ing economic and financial context . 
Thailand has adopted the monetary policy framework with flexible inflation targeting (FIT) 
as the monetary policy objective since 2000 mainly to pursue price stability. This has helped 
stabilize Thailand’s inflation not to move above the target range. However, rapid change in 
structures of the global and Thai economies in the past decade resulted in downward trend of 
inflation dynamics. Moreover, financial stability has become increasingly important following the 
global f inancial crisis in 2008 stemmed from the build -up of vulnerabilities in the U.S. financial 
system. Given changing inflation dynamics and growing importance of financial stability, 
most inflation targeting central banks are now facing greater challenges and  constraints in 
the conduct of monetary policy.  
Key challenges in the conduct of Thailand’s monetary policy  
1) Effectiveness of monetary policy in pursuing price stability reduced  because (1) 
Thailand’s inflation was increasingly influenced by external facto rs, especially by prices of 
commodities in the global market and greater interconnections in trade and financial channels 
between each country, and (2) Thailand’s  inflation dynamics were expected to be lower than in the 
past due to cyclical factors including rising agricultural production given favorable weather 
conditions, which pressured on prices. Structural factors including technological development also 
helped reduce production costs. For example, shale oil technology l ed to lower crude oil prices. 
Moreover, the rise of global value chain as a consequence of globalization in an attempt to seek 
raw material sources also helped reduce costs. An expansion of e -commerce helped reduce 
operational costs of businesses and led t o intensifying price competition. In addition, Thailand’s 
aging society could restrain consumption growth in the period ahead.  
2) The role of monetary policy was extended to preserve financial stability. Financial 
sector has become increasingly connected to the real sector through new alternative forms of 
savings and investment in more developed financial market. This might lead to build -up of 
vulnerabilities in the financial system more easily. The conduct of monetary policy aiming to 
preserve financial stab ility would have to additionally address financial stability issues, rather than 
mainly pursuing price stability. This would help prevent a crisis as took place in the U.S. in 2008. 
Moreover, most studies on the relationship between monetary policy and fin ancial stability 
suggested that an extra and prolonged accommodative monetary policy could pose risks in the 
financial system and increase the likelihood of financial crisis through risk -taking channel, 
prompting central banks worldwide to start placing mo re emphasis on preserving financial stability.  
Appropriateness of Thailand’s current monetary policy framework  
Challenges mentioned above prompted central banks worldwide to investigate on 
other monetary policy frameworks that could be applied. Such frameworks are, for example, 
nominal GDP -level targeting, price -level targeting, and temporary price -level targeting at zero 
lower bound.10/ The studies also include finding ways to improve the current monetary policy 
framework to suit the current economic context. However, some frameworks are subject to 
practical limitations such as lag and low frequency of GDP data which could result in monetary 
policy being less timely and was not helpful in addressing financial stability . In the case of 
Thailand, the FIT  framework remains appropriate as flexible monetary policy framework has 
facilitated the Bank of Thailand (BOT) in maintaining economic and financial stability of the 
country, while also pursuing price stability.  The BOT’s currently adopted FIT framework sets 
inflation as the medium -term target with a band which allows inflation to fluctuate around the  
                                           
10/  Ben S. Bernanke (2017), “Temporary Price -level Targeting: An Alternative Framework for Monetary Policy”, 
Brookings Institution.  Monetary Policy Report December 2018   28 mid point  in the short run. The current framework thus allows monetary policy consideration to 
place emphasis on other dimensions of stability in conjunction with price stability.  
The role of monetary policy when its influences on inflation decreased  
Although the effectiveness of monetary policy on inflation declines during low 
inflation period, price stability remains a key objective of monetary policy conduct.  This is 
because (1) Too -high or too -low inflation would affect saving and investment plans and would in 
turn impact economic activities and household purchasing power. On the other hand, stable 
inflation would help anchor public’s inflation expectations, as well as help the public to plan for 
future economic activities more easily. (2) Pursuing price stabili ty is consistent with basic principles 
of monetary policy, long -run money neutrality, in which monetary policy in the long term would 
affect solely on inflation but not on economic growth at potential level. Therefore, setting inflation 
as the monetary pol icy target remains appropriate and maintaining stable inflation remains an 
important monetary policy objective.  
Nonetheless, Thailand should consider setting the inflation target to be consistent 
with lower inflation dynamics than in the past.  An appropri ate inflation target should not be too 
high or too low. Otherwise, the effectiveness of monetary policy could be affected. Moreover, 
inflation target should be flexible to allow the BOT to simultaneously maintain other stability 
objectives altogether.  
(1) Appropriateness of the current inflation target . The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) 
considered benefits and costs of setting inflation target at different levels, as well as their impacts 
on overall economic and financial stability. The MPC viewed that th e plan to lower inflation target 
from the current level at an appropriate timing would help ensure consistency of the target to 
Thailand’s inflation dynamics under the new context, where inflation would potentially be lower 
than in the past due mainly to s tructural factors. This would help reduce the possibility of monetary 
policy being excessively accommodative and reduce the possibility of inflation being lower than 
the target which is incompatible with the current context. In recent periods, many central  banks, 
including the Bank of Korea and Norges Bank, lowered their inflation targets to be consistent with 
changing inflation dynamics driven by structural factors.  
Nevertheless, considering short - and long -run factors, the aforementioned plan on 
reducing the inflation target might not be applicable in 2019 . In the short run, impacts on the 
economic growth must be considered as public might hold up their spending if they expected a 
significantly less accommodative monetary policy stance in the period ahead following the inflation 
target reduction. This might cause a fall in inflation expectation. In the long run, monetary policy 
space as a buffer against crisis in the future could decrease. This was because the inflation target 
reduction would lower the inte rest rate upcycle than ever before, following a decline in medium -
term inflation expectation. Thus, maintaining an annual average inflation target at 2.5±1.5 percent 
remained appropriate in the medium term and for 2019, and would help facilitate economic g rowth 
to be consistent with Thailand’s growth potential. Meanwhile, the tolerance band of the inflation 
target at 1.5 percent also remained appropriate to cushion against volatilities that might cause 
future inflation to deviate from the mid point of the t arget in the short run. For consideration of the 
inflation target in the future, the BOT would conduct further studies on structural changes which 
might have impacts on inflation dynamics and inflation outlook going forward, and would assess 
the benefits a nd costs. This would help setting monetary policy target in the period ahead to be 
appropriate and enhance effectiveness of monetary policy conduct.  
(2) Plans on changing appropriate inflation target under the FIT framework.  The setting of 
inflation target should be flexible enough to allow the MPC to place emphasis on other aspects of 
stability in conjunction with price stability. Alternative settings included setting only the upper bound 
of the target, setting the target ra nge, and reconsidering the role of monetary policy in price stability Monetary Policy Report December 2018   29 over medium term, as seen among other central banks (Table 1). This would allow monetary policy 
to put greater considerations on factors related to financial stability in a more flexibl e manner.    
Table 1 Duration setting of inflation target among various central banks  
Duration setting of inflation target  Country  
 
 
 
Medium -term target   
not specified  Australia, Canada1/, Czech Republic, New Zealand, 
Sweden, Norway,  Armenia, Hungary, Mexico, Poland, 
Romania, Serbia, Colombia2/,  
Thailand2/ 
 
2 - 3 years  South Korea (3 years), Israel (2 years),  
the Philippines (3 years), Turkey (3 years),  
Chile (2 years), Ghana (1 -1.5 years)  
Short -term target (1 year)  Brazil, Guatemala  
At all times  The United Kingdom, Iceland   
Peru, South Africa  
Note : Blue indicates developed economies  
1/  In general, the duration of the target is set at 6 -8 quarters, but can be modified depending on 
economic conditions.  
2/  The law requires an annual target setting, but in practice, medium -term target is also communicated.  
Source: Gill Hammond (2012), “State of the Art of Inflation Targeting”, Centre for Central Banking 
Studies Handbook No. 2  and compilations from central banks’ websites  
The role of monetary policy in preserving financial stability  
The BOT should enhance the FIT framework to strengthen effectiveness and 
cushion against various challenges in the period ahead. In particular, financial stability 
should be incorporated into the  process of monetary policy decision in a systemic way,  
including development of more in -depth and comprehensive indicators in conjunction with the use 
of macroprudential measures to preserve financial stability in accordance with Thailand’s changing 
econo mic and financial context. The BOT has recently undertaken the following processes:11/ 
 (1) Developing a financial cycle indicator to support monetary policy deliberation . If 
business cycle and financial cycle move in the same direction, monetary policy cou ld preserve 
macroeconomic stability, price stability, and financial stability altogether at once. However, if both 
cycles move in different directions, monetary policy should consider trade -offs between preserving 
economic and inflation stability, and pres erving financial stability.  
 (2) Developing financial stability indicators . Considering only the financial cycle 
indicator might not be sufficient for assessing financial stability risks, as it only takes into account 
financing in the financial market and activities in the real estate sector. The build -up of other 
vulnerabilities in the financial system should also be considered. Such vulnerabilities include 
underpricing of risks and risks from regulatory gaps. Developing indicators to monitor various types  
of risks in the financial system would help indicate the possibility of a financial crisis in the future 
                                           
11/ Warapong Wongwachara, Bovonvich Jindarak, Nuwat Nookhwun, Sophon Tunyavetchakit, and Chutipha 
Klungjaturavet (2018), “Integrating Monetary Policy and Financial Stability: A New Framework”. Research 
presented at the Bank of Thailand’s academic symposium in 2018.  Monetary Policy Report December 2018   30 and would facilitate a prompt response of monetary policy. In this light, financial stability dashboard 
was developed to monitor risks in various aspects and to be used in conjunction with analysis of 
the relationship between business and financial cycle. The dashboard would help in assessing 
pockets of risks and deciding the appropriate monetary policy tools for different types of risks.  
 (3)  Developing macroprudential measures , as a complementary tool to support the 
policy rate tool, which would help address issues in a more effective and targeted manner. The 
BOT collaborated with other regulatory agencies in the financial sector in preparing for the use of 
macroprudential measures to ensure more effective mechanism in regulating and monitoring risks 
in the financial system. Looking ahead, institutional arrangement of Thailand’s financial regulatory 
agencies should be set up in a more systematic manner regarding data coordination, policy tools, 
and implementation of regulations and regulatory guidelines . This would help enhance preserving 
financial stability of the country.  
(4) Conducting monetary policy with greater consideration on financial stability. In 
case of systemic risks, which might become widespread and affect economic and financial system, 
or when economic and financial imbalances might dampen economic growth and inflation in the 
period ahead, the MPC might tighten monetary policy stance in the -lean-against -the-wind manner 
to cope with imbalances in the financial system. Although this might sl ow down inflation and 
economic expansion in the short run, it would support sustainable economic growth in the long 
run. Moreover, the MPC might deploy the policy rate tool in conjunction with macroprudential 
measures to enhance effectiveness of monetary p olicy as a preventive tool against financial 
stability risks from worsening economic and inflation stability. This was because macroprudential 
measures alone might not be sufficient in preserving financial stability overall as risks could migrate 
to a less  regulated part of financial sector, while policy rate was able to deal with all of the cracks.12/  
Development of monetary policy communication strategy to improve public understanding  
Transparent communication regarding rationales of the decisions taken a nd monetary 
policy stance would help business sector and the public adjust themselves and plan their economic 
activities in advanced. The MPC thus communicated factors influencing the monetary policy 
decisions under the FIT framework, as well as roles and constraints of monetary policy in 
preserving various types of stability. In particular, there was a need to place more emphasis on 
financial stability, while not abandoning economic growth and price stability objectives in 
the medium term.   
In recent perio ds, the MPC communicated through conventional channels such as the 
edited minutes,  which focused on issues that the MPC discussed regarding economic and financial 
assessment, as well as strategic issues which would have a significant impact on monetary pol icy 
conduct in the period ahead. Another example included the monetary policy report, which 
published data supporting the MPC decision and rationales behind monetary policy decision in 
each quarter. The report also presented insightful analyses to enhance public understandings on 
monetary policy conduct. In addition, the report would also show the MPC’s will in implementing 
monetary policy to preserve financial stability and to deepen public understandings on principles 
of monetary policy decisions. This wo uld help improve public expectations on monetary policy 
outlook going forward.  
                                           
12/ Jeremy C. Stein (2013), “Overheating in  Credit Markets: Origins, Measurement, and Policy Responses”. Speech 
given at the “Restoring Household Financial Stability after the Great Recession: Why Household Balance Sheets 
Matter” research symposium sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis , St. Louis, Missouri  Monetary Policy Report December 2018   31 Looking ahead, the MPC would gradually utilize more communication channels, especially 
through online media. This would promote public access to information regarding economic and 
financial assessment, monetary policy conduct, and trade -offs between different objectives in 
making monetary policy decisions. Such communications would also conveniently enhance 
understandings on the monetary policy outlook in the period ahead, allow ing businesses and the 
public to adjust themselves in a timely manner and forming appropriate expectations on monetary 
policy direction according to the MPC’s communication strategy to the public at each meeting.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report December 2018   32 The need to hike the  policy rate at the MPC meeting 8th/2018 . 
Accommodative m onetary policy had started since November 2011 to support economic 
recovery from the Great Flood. During three to four years later, the MPC then steadily reduced the 
policy rate when global trade slowdown hit the economy by exports contraction. Meanwhile, 
domestic demand recovered quite slowly following weak fiscal stimulus as a result of domestic 
political unrest. Moreover, the MPC had voted to maintain the policy rate at 1.5 percent from April 
2015 until December 2018. Since 2011, the seven -year period was considered the longest do  
wncycle of the policy rate. (Chart 1)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Keeping the policy rate low at 1.50 percent throughout 28 MPC meetings contributed 
to continuing improvements of the Thai economy. In 2017, the economy grew as high as 3.9 
percent and was expected to gain further traction at 4.2 percent in 2018 and 4.0 percent in 2019. 
Such growth rate was consistent with the potential level and above the average growth over the 
past 10 years  at 3.0 percent. (Chart 1) Moreover, headline inflation was expected to gradually rise 
and move in line with the target in the period  ahead. The MPC thus assessed that the need to 
maintain the policy rate at an extra accommodative level started to reduce,  especially when 
compared to the past situations.  (Chart 2)  
However, a prolonged period of low interest rate led to a buildup of vulnerabilities 
in the financial system. This prompted households to continue leveraging, while discouraged 
savings. This would  have greater impacts as Thailand is entering aging society. Moreover, the 
public and businesses would seek alternatives to save and invest for higher returns, possibly 
leading to underpricing of risks. This would easily cause imbalances in the economic an d financial 
system and could in turn affect sustainability of long -term economic growth.  
The MPC assessed that an increase in the policy rate at this meeting would not be 
an obstacle to economic growth and inflation outlook in the period ahead, but would h elp 
reduce risks to the financial stability, which would in turn be beneficial for the  
sustainability of economic growth.  The MPC viewed that the use of monetary policy in 
conjunction with macroprudential measures that had already been implemented to a ce rtain 
extent, would help preserving financial stability more effectively. In addition, an increase in the 
policy rate, whenever appropriate, would help build policy space under economic and financial 
outlook where there were high uncertainties in the perio d ahead, especially on the external front. 
Nevertheless, the MPC viewed that an increase in the policy rate would be gradual and might not 
be in a continuous manner as in the past. The assessments would be data dependent in order to 
implement an appropriat e course of monetary policy in the period ahead.  
0123456
2005200620072008200 201020112012201320142015201620172018%Chart  1 Monetary  policy helped accommodate the economy over 
the periods that were affected by various factors . The policy rate 
remained low for a long period of the latest down cycle.
Thailand’s policy rate
% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018E2019E2008 -2017
GDP 4.2 5.0 5.4 1.7 -0.7 7.5 0.8 7.2 2.7 1.0 3.0 3.3 3.9 4.2 4.0 3.0
Headline 
inflation4.5 4.6 2.2 5.5 -0.9 3.3 3.8 3.0 2.2 1.9 -0.9 0.2 0.7 1.1 1.0 1.9
Value of 
exports15.2 17.0 18.2 15.9 -13.4 27.1 14.8 2.8 -0.1 -0.4 -5.6 0.1 9.8 7.0 3.8 5.1Low for Long
The policy rate had been  1.50%  
for 28 consecutive meetings  3.255.00
1.253.50
2.00
1.503.75
1.752009
The Global 
Financial Crisis
2011
The Great Flood2013 -2014
Political unrest
2013 -2016
Export contraction
Note   E = denotes estimation by the Bank of Thailand
MPC meeting GDPHeadline 
inflationPolicy rate
3rd/2009
The Global Financial Crisis-0.7% -0.9% 1.25%
3rd/2015
After political unrest and 
export contraction3.0% -0.9% 1.50%
8th/2018
Present (19 Dec 2018)
The economy grew in line with 
potential level, and inflation 
was within target4.2% 1.1% 1.75%Chart 2  The  need for extra accommodative monetary 
policy reduced compared with thepast events.
Economic growth,  headline inflation, and policy rateMonetary Policy Report December 2018   33 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
2017 2018
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
3.3 3.9 4.3 4.0 4.9 4.6 3.3
Production
-2.5 6.2 9.7 -1.3 6.5 10.2 4.3
3.8 3.7 4.0 4.7 4.8 4.1 3.3
Manufacturing 2.3 2.6 4.2 3.4 3.8 3.2 1.6
Construction 8.6 -2.3 -1.6 -5.3 1.2 2.0 4.7
Wholesales and retail trade 5.3 6.3 6.4 6.9 7.0 7.3 7.2
Hotels and restaurants 9.9 8.5 6.9 15.3 12.8 9.4 6.5
Transport, storage, and communication 4.1 7.3 7.4 8.8 7.5 6.8 6.2
Financial intermediation 6.5 4.8 4.6 3.6 3.6 4.6 3.0
Real estate, renting, and business activities 3.2 4.6 4.7 5.8 4.9 3.5 4.8
Domestic demand 2.8 2.1 2.5 2.0 3.3 3.8 4.2
Private consumption 3.0 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.7 4.5 5.0
Private investment 0.5 1.7 2.5 2.4 3.1 3.2 3.9
Government consumption 2.2 0.5 1.8 0.2 1.9 2.0 2.1
Public investment 9.5 -1.2 -1.6 -6.0 4.0 4.9 4.2
Imports of goods and services -1.0 6.8 6.5 7.5 8.7 8.3 10.7
imports of goods -2.3 8.5 9.2 8.3 9.3 7.2 9.4
imports of services 4.6 -0.3 -5.0 4.0 6.2 13.3 16.9
Exports of goods and services 2.8 5.5 6.9 7.4 6.0 6.8 -0.1
exports of goods 0.3 5.6 8.2 6.6 4.7 7.4 -0.2
exports of services 11.5 5.1 2.6 9.9 9.5 4.9 0.2
Trade balance (billion, U.S. dollars) 36.5 34.2 10.6 7.0 6.6 5.8 3.4
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 48.2 50.2 14.9 12.4 15.1 6.7 4.2
Financial account (billion, U.S. dollars) -20.8 -12.4 2.7 -5.3 -3.7 -5.1 -1.4
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars) 171.9 202.6 199.3 202.6 215.6 206.8 204.5
Unemployment rate (%) 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.0
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%) n.a. n.a. 1.2 1.3 1.2 1.0 1.0
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of ThailandGDP growth 
Agriculture
Non-agriculture
ExpenditurePercent 2016 2017Monetary Policy Report December 2018   34  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
1. Financial market sector
0.6 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.8
Equity market
SET index (end of period) 1,542.9 1,753.7 1,673.2 1,753.7 1,776.3 1,595.6 1,756.4 1,669.1 1,641.8
Actual volatility of SET index1/
14.2 6.5 5.8 7.9 9.4 12.3 11.6 16.9 10.4
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 18.6 19.1 17.9 19.1 18.3 16.2 17.3 16.5 15.6
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/
4.4 3.3 2.9 2.8 4.6 4.5 4.5 5.3 5.2
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 106.2 110.6 111.2 112.9 114.8 115.2 115.2 117.3 116.6
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 100.6 103.6 104.2 105.8 106.3 107.1 107.1 109.1 108.0
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR)4/
6.33 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28 6.28
12-month fixed deposit rate4/
1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37 1.37
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 18.0 18.2 18.5 18.2 18.1 17.9 18.4 18.4 n.a.
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 198.5 187.1 46.5 40.6 50.2 56.4 51.3 n.a. n.a.
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 1.2 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.11 1.2 1.2 n.a. n.a.
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 96.3 96.1 96.4 96.1 95.0 96.8 98.2 97.2 n.a.
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 79.3 78.1 77.8 78.1 77.7 77.5 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.7 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.6 n.a. n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 n.a. n.a.
Housing loans 2.9 3.2 3.3 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.4 n.a. n.a.
Auto leasing 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Credit cards 3.7 2.6 2.8 2.6 3.2 2.4 2.5 n.a. n.a.
Other personal loans 2.9 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.5 n.a. n.a.
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 8.2 8.0 8.5 7.9 7.9 7.8 8.0 n.a. n.a.
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 n.a. n.a.
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 6.4 6.5 6.4 7.8 7.1 6.5 6.5 n.a. n.a.
Current ratio (times) 1.6 1.7 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.6 n.a. n.a.
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.5 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.5 n.a. n.a.
SMEs 4.3 4.4 4.6 4.4 4.5 4.5 4.7 n.a. n.a.
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 5 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisionsBond market2018
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Indicators 2016 20172017Monetary Policy Report December 2018   35  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Oct Nov
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 61,722       62,665       16,859   18,476   12,856    15,230       17,919       4,232         n.a.
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 13,409       13,907       3,774      3,787      3,162       3,365         3,794         904             n.a.
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 20,187       20,536       5,604      5,670      4,248       4,922         5,955         1,355         n.a.
 Condominiums 28,126       28,222       7,481      9,019      5,446       6,943         8,170         1,973         n.a.
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 110,575     114,477     35,434   24,863   26,243    19,627       40,656       13,412       n.a.
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 19,433       14,280       4,874      3,608      3,797       2,790         6,143         838             n.a.
Townhouses and commercial buildings 32,792       36,571       9,831      7,892      6,435       6,522         8,562         5,654         n.a.
Condominiums 58,350       63,626       20,729   13,363   16,011    10,315       25,951       6,920         n.a.
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 130.8 130.9 131.6 133.9 137.7       137.8 139.8 140.0 n.a.
Townhouses (including land) 137.6 141.2 142.6 143.7 145.9       149.5 151.7 151.6 n.a.
Condominiums 165.3 169.7 169.8 175.4 179.8       176.7 180.4 181.3 n.a.
Land 171.2 171.7 172.9 178.3 175.7       177.2 172.7 171.1 n.a.
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%) 40.8 41.2 41.9 41.2 41.2 41.0 41.7 41.7 n.a.
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%)6/
11.7 11.0 12.9 10.1 11.7 5.3 3.4 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)7/
32.5 36.7 36.4 36.7 36.6 35.1 35.6 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 132.2 155.2 151.7 155.2 157.9 154.2 159.3 157.6 n.a.
Short-term (%) 41.2 44.3 42.3 44.3 43.1 43.0 41.3 40.4 n.a.
Long-term (%) 58.8 55.7 57.7 55.7 56.9 57.0 58.7 59.6 n.a.
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 3.2 2.9 3.1 2.9 3.2 3.1 3.1 3.2 n.a.
Note:
6/ Current account / Nominal GDP at the same quarter
7/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDPIndicators 2016 20172017 2018Monetary Policy Report December 2018   36  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
2018
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 9 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2
8-9 0 0 0 2 3 3 4 2
7-8 0 0 1 5 7 6 7 5
6-7 1 2 3 11 13 11 11 8
5-6 8 9 8 18 17 15 15 12
4-5 27 20 17 21 19 17 16 15
3-4 36 26 23 18 16 16 15 15
2-3 22 23 22 13 12 13 12 14
1-2 6 13 15 7 7 9 8 11
0-1 1 5 8 3 3 5 5 8
(-1)-0 0 1 3 1 1 2 3 5
(-2)-(-1) 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 2
(-3)-(-2) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
< (-3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1Percent2019 2020
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
2018
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2 2
3.5-4.0 0 0 1 1 2 1 2 3
3.0-3.5 0 1 2 2 3 3 4 4
2.5-3.0 0 3 4 4 6 5 6 7
2.0-2.5 1 8 7 7 8 8 9 9
1.5-2.0 8 16 12 10 11 10 11 11
1.0-1.5 23 20 15 13 12 12 12 11
0.5-1.0 30 19 15 14 12 12 12 11
0.0-0.5 22 15 14 13 11 11 11 10
(-0.5)-0.0 11 10 11 11 10 10 9 9
(-1.0)-(0.5) 3 5 8 9 8 8 8 7
(-1.5)-(1.0) 1 2 5 7 6 6 6 6
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 1 3 5 4 5 4 4
< -2.0 0 0 3 6 6 8 7 7Percent2019 2020Monetary Policy Report December 2018   37  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
2018
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3
> 4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 2
2.0-2.5 0 0 1 2 4 4 5 6
1.5-2.0 0 4 9 11 14 14 15 15
1.0-1.5 10 28 27 26 26 24 24 23
0.5-1.0 61 44 34 30 27 26 24 23
0.0-0.5 27 21 21 20 18 18 17 16
(-0.5)-0.0 1 4 7 8 8 9 9 9
(-1.0)-(0.5) 0 0 1 2 3 3 3 4
(-1.5)-(1.0) 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1
(-2.0)-(-1.5) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
< -2.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2019 2020Monetary Policy Report December 2018   38 4.2 Data pack  
Global Economy  
 
The U.S. and Japanese economies were expected to expand, while growth momentum stalled in 
the euro area due to domestic factors and the slowdown in global trade volume. The Chinese 
economy experienced a growth slowdown owing to the impact from po licy to curb financial stability 
risks. Asian economies also slowed down due to tightening financial conditions, dampened 
confidence affected by the U.S. trade protectionism measures, as well as lower fiscal stimulus in 
some countries.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
4550556065
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018U.S. Euro area JapanDiffusion index
Nov 18
Sources: Bloomberg and EurostatManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
0102030
2015 2016 2017 2018Retail sales Manufacturing
Total investment Investment in manufacturing (31%)
Investment in real estate (22%) Investment in infrastructure (22%)China’s economic indicators
(Change from same period last year)
Note: ( ) denotes share to total investment
Source: CEICPercent
Oct 18
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
Philippines Thailand
Oct 18Asian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
201020112012201320142015201620172018United States Euro Area Japan China Asia*Percent
Oct 18Inflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note: * Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, Malaysia , 
the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source: CEICMonetary Policy Report December 2018   39 Thai Economy  
The Thai economy continued to gain further traction, mainly driven by private consumption 
whose growth accelerated in almost all product categories. On the other hand, merchandise 
exports growth slowed down, partly due to a temporary factor pertain ing to storm situation in 
Thailand’s trading partners and the impact from the U.S. trade protectionism measures. 
Exports of services exhibited slower growth, particularly for the number of Chinese tourists 
which declined following the Phuket tour boat sink ing incident. Private investment growth 
accelerated especially in construction. Meanwhile, public expenditure continued to drive the 
economy.  
  
  
 
 
 
 
-10-5051015
Q1
2015Q2Q3 Q4 Q1
2016Q2 Q3Q4 Q1
2017Q2Q3 Q4 Q1
2018Q2 Q3Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory 2/ GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/ 
Note: 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM )
2/ Change in inventory and statistical discrepancy
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
Third quarter
050100150200250300350
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulAsia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaIndex of foreign tourists classified by nationality  
(three -month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2014 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of TourismOct18
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price and quantity
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted; January 2013 = 100)
859095100105110115
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulValue Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandOct 18
6090120150180
Oct Jan April JulThousandsFY2017 FY2019 FY2018
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulPublic spending by central government
Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
Billion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy OfficeOct 18
Oct 18Monetary Policy Report December 2018   40 Inflation  
Headline inflation declined mainly on account of lower energy prices. Core inflation also 
decreased as the high base effect of excise tax increases on tobacco and alcoholic beverages 
was over. The short -term (one -year-ahead) inflation expectations accordin g to the survey of 
businesses remained largely unchanged from the previous quarter.  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflationContribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
Oct-Nov
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Oct-Nov
PercentUnderlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand-2.0-1.00.01.02.03.04.0
Jan
2013JulJan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulHeadline inflation
Note: The field shows the highest and lowest outcomes among different 
measures of underlying inflation. The measures included are 1. 
Asymmetric trim (excludes goods and services with most volatile price 
changes, removing the bottom 
15 percentile and the top 10 percentile), 2. Principal component 
model (calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services) and 3. Core inflation excluding rent and government 
measures.
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Jan
2018Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from the same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
with bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Monetary Policy Report December 2018   41 Financial conditions  
Short -term government bond yields rose in the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2018, partly 
on account of increased bond supply, before gradually declining owing to higher demand for 
Bank of Thailand bonds that were due to mature in December. Short -term yields later 
increased on account of market expectations of a policy rate hike prior to the 8th/2018 
Monetary Policy Committee meeting. Medium -term and long -term government bond yields fell 
on account of domestic factors and market concerns over external f ronts. Private credit to 
businesses and households continued to expand, consistent with economic conditions. The 
baht depreciated against the U.S. dollar due to market concerns over global economic 
uncertainty.  
     
  
 
  
 
 
Government bond yields
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA) 
(data as of 18 December 2018)2016 20171.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y
20182.63
2.50
2.26
1.96
1.85
1.77% p.a.
Total corporate financing by instrument*
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Billion baht
Note: *Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bonds excluding commercial banks, 
and newly issued equities.-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Jul Jan
2018JulCredit Bond Equity
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37 859095100105110115120
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
Oct
Jan
Apr
Jul
OctREER
USDTHB (RHS)DXYNEER
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 18 September 2018 )2015 2016 2017 2018Appreciation
Baht per U.S. dollar IndexThe Thai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), Nominal 
Effective Exchange Rate (NEER), and the Dollar Index (DXY)
-4%-3%-2%-1%0%1%2%3%4%
GBP
EUR
KRW
THB
TWD
MYR
AUD
SGD
CNY
JPY
PHP
INR
IDRCurrency movements vis -a-vis the U.S. dollar
(18 Dec 2018 compared to 30 Sep 2018 )
Percent
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollar
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 18 December 2018 )Monetary Policy Report December 2018   42 Stability: financial markets  
The price -to-earning (P/E) ratio of the Stock Exchange of Thailand (SET) stayed slightly below 
the historical average, while that of the Market for Alternative Investment (mai) continued to 
trend down albeit remaining above the historical average. The shar e of unrated bonds 
issuance fell to 1.9 percent of total corporate bond outstanding in the third quarter of 2018.  
  
 
Stability: household sector    
The ratio of household debt to GDP remained high despite a gradual decline. Credit quality of 
consumer loans overall remained stable at the end of the third quarter of 2018. Nonetheless, 
the NPL ratio for mortgage loans stayed at a high level while the NPL  ratios increased for auto 
hire purchase and credit card loans.  
  
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand (as of Sep 2018)Current price -to-earning ratio and turnover ratio  of SET 
and mai
020406080100120
020406080100
Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 Sep-16 Mar-17 Sep-17 Mar-18 Sep-18SET turnover ratio mai turnover ratio
SET P/E ratio (RHS) mai P/E ratio (RHS) Percent times
Average P/E of mai (2013 -2017)
Average P/E of SET ( 2013 -2017 )
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Corporate bonds outstanding
9 91966117127 128 89 79 68
68 66 66
050100150200
05001,0001,5002,0002,5003,0003,500
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017/Q1
2017/Q2
2017/Q3
2017/Q4
2018/Q1
2018/Q2
2018/Q3Unrated
Non-investment grade
B group
A group
Number of companies issuing unrated bond  (RHS)Billion baht
(3.3%)(1.4%)
(0.6%)
(0.4%)
(1.4%)Number of companies 
issuing unrated bonds
(4.6%)(4.0%)(3.2%)(2.6%)(2.5%)(2.4%) (2.1%)(1.9%)
Note:  ( ) represents percent of unrated bonds in total corporate bonds
505560657075808590
Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172018Percent of GDP2/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
3/Household debt and GDP data are revised. This results in the 
different debt to GDP ratios compared to the last MPR.
Source: Bank of Thailand77.5Household debt1/
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans (NPL) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
Percent
2.73.4
1.62.5
2.5
0.01.02.03.04.05.06.0
Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1 Q3 Q1
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 20172018Consumer (Total) Home Auto Credit card Personal
Third quarterMonetary Policy Report December 2018   43 Stability: corporate sector  
In the third quarter of 2018, stability of the corporate sector remained sound in line with 
continued economic expansion, as reflected in the operating profit margin and return on 
assets. Meanwhile, debt serviceability of small enterprises and businesses i n some sectors 
remained vulnerable. The ratio of NPL among SMEs continued to rise, especially for those 
adversely affected by structural changes such as those in rice mills and retail trade sectors.  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandPercent
Note: *Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.Operating Profit Margin (OPM) and Return on Assets (ROA)*
8.0 
5.8
456789
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Q4 2017
Q1 2018
Q2 2018
Q3 2018Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Third quarter
-10.00-8.00-6.00-4.00-2.000.002.004.00
Q1 2014
Q2 2014
Q3 2014
Q4 2014
Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016
Q3 2016
Q4 2016
Q1 2017
Q2 2017
Q3 2017
Q4 2017
Q1 2018
Q2 2018
Q3 2018
Smallest (Quintile 1) Small (Quintile 2) Medium (Quintile 3)
Large (Quintile 4) Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandInterest Coverage Ratio (ICR) TimeDebt serviceability at 25thpercentile of each group of firm size
Third quarter
-5.0-3.0-1.01.03.05.07.09.011.013.0
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2018
Q3/2015
Q2/2016
Q1/2017
Q4/2017
Q3/61
Q2/2015
Q1/2016
Q4/2016
Q3/2017
Q2/61
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2018
Q3/2015
Q2/2016
Q1/2017
Q4/2017
Q2/2015
Q1/2016
Q4/2016
Q3/2017
Q2/61
Q1/2015
Q4/2015
Q3/2016
Q2/2017
Q1/2018
Commerce Production
(exc.petro)Construction Real Estate Utilities Services OverallPercentile 25 Percentile 50Interest Coverage Ratio, classified by sectors 
Time
Note: * production exclude Petroleum and chemicals
Source : Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)3.02.21.54.7
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Total corporate loan Large corporate loan SME loan
Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
2.0
1.52.6
0123
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Third quarter
Third quarterMonetary Policy Report December 2018   44 Stability: real estate  
Demand for residences slightly increased, as reflected in the number of residential ownership 
transfers that continued to rise above the historical average. The supply also accelerated as 
seen by a large increase in newly opened residential units during th e third quarter of 2018. 
This was particularly the case for condominiums as property developers focused on selling 
existing units rather than creating a new supply during the first half of the year. Property prices 
rose while land price declined, partly du e to an expansion of property development projects in 
suburban areas.  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential Transfer units in Bangkok and its vicinity
Source: Real Estate Information CenterNote: *Average during 2014 -201750
44
010203040506070
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
Low-rise Condominium Total AverageThousand units
seasonally adjusted
New residential projects launched in Bangkok and its vicinity
Thousand units
seasonally adjusted
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), calculation by Bank of Thailand
Note: *Average during 2014 -201735
28
0510152025303540
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
Low-rise Condominium Total Average
Condominium inventory in Bangkok and vicinity and ‘Time to go’
Note: ‘Time to go’ is the time taken for  all real estate inventory to be sold out at 
the average sales rate per month (since projects launched) given no 
additional supply.
Source: AREA and calculation by Bank of Thailand22 18
111323
01020304050
010203040
 
2015
2016
2017
2018H1
2015
2016
2017
2018H1
2015
2016
2017
2018H1
2015
2016
2017
2018H1
2015
2016
2017
2018H1Thousand units
Accumulated supply Time to go (RHS)Months
< 2 mioTHB 2-3 mio THB 3-5 mio THB 5-10 mio THB 10 mio THB
140152180
173
100110120130140150160170180190
Q1
2013Q3Q1
2014Q3 Q1
2015Q3 Q1
2016Q3Q1
2017Q3Q1
2018Q3Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate price indices
Index (2009=100)
Source: Bank of ThailandThird quarterMonetary Policy Report December 2018   45 Stability: financial institutions  
Financial institutions maintained strong financial positions, as reflected in high levels of capital 
buffers among commercial banks to cushion against risks should credit quality deteriorate. In 
the third quarter of 2018, commercial bank credits continued to grow for both business and 
consumer loans. The overall NPL ratio stabilized at a high level, especially for loans extended  
to SMEs that register a rapid growth.  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit growth in the commercial bank system
%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumer2018
Q22018 
Q3
SME 7.5 7.2
Consumer 8.0 8.4
Total 5.4 6.3
Corporate 4.1 5.2
Large corporate -1.8 0.6
Third quarter
2.65
1.943.98
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Total NPL (%) Large Corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%) 018 2018
Q2 Q3
SME         
Total         
Consumer         
Large 1.70 1.50Non-performing loan (NPL)
%
Source: Bank of Thailand
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
3235444447
373541
150.4176.0182.1190.7
100120140160180200
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
20180102030405060
Loan loss provisions (RHS) Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
15.217.918.4
11.515.315.8
3.72.6
2.6
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report December 2018   46 Stability: external position  
Thailand’s external stability remained sound, as reflected in high levels of international 
reserves and a sustained current account surplus. Moreover, the ratio of external debt to GDP 
was below an international b enchmark. This would help the Thai economy to be resilient 
against volatilities in global financial market.  
 
  
 
 
Stability:  fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound. The ratio of public debt to GDP stayed below the  
sustainability threshold.    
   
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
050100150200250300
0102030405060
200 
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4
2018Q1
2018Q2
2018Q3Long-term debt (RHS)
Short-term debt (RHS)
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48%Billion U.S. dollar Percent
Percent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability ( 60%)Public debt to GDP
42.5 43.740.8 41.7 41.3 41.9 41.2 41.2 41.0 42.0 41.7
0204060
201420152016 Q1-17 Q2-17 Q3-17 Q4-17 Q1-18 Q2-18 Q3-18 Oct-18
Public government’s direct borrowing FIDF compensation
Advance borrowing for debt restructuring Non-financial state-owned enterprises
Financial state-owned enterprises            FIDF
Other government agencies Public debt to GDP
External
3.9%
Domestic
96.1%Outstanding debt as of October 2018
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from 
remaining duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
12.4%
Long -term 
87.6%
Source: Bank of ThailandReserve to short -term debt
012345
2005
2006
2007
2008
200 
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2017Q1
2017Q2
2017Q3
2017Q4
2018Q1
2018Q2
2018Q3
Oct-18Oct 18 = 3.2Time 
