 
Monetary Policy Report  March 2017  
Monetary Policy Report  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Report  is prepared quarterly by staff of the 
Bank of Thailand with the approval of the Monetary Policy Committee 
(MPC).  It serves two purposes: ( 1) to communicate to the public the  
MPC’s  consideration and rationales for the conduct of monetary policy, 
and (2)  to present the latest set of  economic and inflation forecast s, based 
on which  the monetary policy decisions  were made .  
 
 
The Monetary Policy Committee  
March  2017 
 
Mr. Veerathai Santiprabhob   Chairman  
Mr. Mathee Supapongse  Vice Chairman  
Mr. Paiboon Kittisrikangwan  Member  
Mr. Jamlong Atikul  Member  
Mr. Porametee Vimolsiri  Member  
Mr. Apichai Boontherawara  Member  
Mr. Sethaput Suthiwart -Narueput  Member  
 
 
 
 
  
Monetary Policy Report  March 2017  
Monetary Policy in Thailand  
Monetary Policy Committee  
Under the Bank of Thailand Act, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) comprise s the 
governor and two deputy governors, as well as four distinguished external members  
representing various sectors of the economy , with the aim of ensuring  that monetary policy 
decisions are effective and transparent.  
Monetary Policy Objective  
The MPC sets monetary policy to promote  the objective of supporting sustainable a nd full 
potential economic growth, without causing inflationary problems or economic and financial 
imbalances or bubbles.  
Monetary Policy Target  
The Cabinet  approved the annual average headline inflation target of 2.5 + 1.5 percent as the 
target  for the medium  term and for 201 7. The inflation target  is to assure the general public 
that the MPC will take  necessary policy actions to return headline inflation to the target within 
an appropriate time horizon without jeopardi zing growth and macro -financial stability.  In the 
event that headline inflation deviates from the target, the MPC shall explain the reasons 
behind the target breach to the  Minister  of Finance and the  public, together with measures 
taken and estimated time to bring inflation back to the target.  
Monetary Policy Instrument  
The MPC utilizes the 1 -day bilateral repurchase transaction rate as the policy interest rate to 
signal the monetary policy stance.  
Evaluati on of Economic Conditions and Forecasts  
The Bank of Thailand takes into account  information from all sources, the macroeconomic 
model, data from each economic sector, as well as surveys  of large enterprises , together with  
small and medium -sized  enterprises from all over the country,  and various financial institutions  
to ensure that economic evaluations and forecasts are accurate and cover all aspects, both at 
the macro and micro levels.   
Monetary Policy Communication  
Recognizing the importance  of monetary policy communication to the public, the MPC 
employs  various  channel s of communication, both in Thai and English, such as (1) organizing 
a press statement at 14 :00 on the day of the Committee meeting, (2) publishing edited 
minutes of the MPC meeting two weeks after the meeting, and (3) publishing the Monetary 
Policy Report  every quarter.   
 Monetary Policy Report  March  2017  Content  
Executive Summary  1 
1. The Global Economy  ................................ ................................ ...........................  3 
 Advanced economies  
 Chinese and Asian economies  
Forecast a ssumption s on trading partners’ economic growth  
BOX :  Implications of the electronics technology life -cycle  
and the rise of the Internet of Things for Asia’s exports   
 Global financial markets  
 Commodity prices   
2. The Thai Economy  ................................ ................................ ..............................  9 
2.1  Recent developments  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 9 
 Overall economy    
 Labor market   
 Inflation   
 Financial condition s 
 Exchange rate s 
 Financial stability   
BOX : Developments in the unrated bond market and implications for  
financial stability  
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  ................................ ................................ ............  15 
Key forecast assumptions  
 Growth forecast and outlook  
BOX : Thailand’s tourism outlook  
Inflation forecast and outlook  
 Risks to growth and  inflation forecasts   
3. Monetary Policy  ................................ ................................ ................................ . 22 
 Monetary Policy Committee ’s decisions in the previous quarter   
BOX : An analysis of monetary policy transmission based on the new loan rate  
4. Appendix  ................................ ................................ ................................ ............  25 
4.1 Table  ................................ ................................ ................................ ..................  25 
Dashboard  of indicators for the Thai economy  
 Dashboard  of indicators for f inancial stability  
4.2 Data pack  ................................ ................................ ................................ ...........  29 
Economic assessment  
Financial stability assessment   Monetary Policy Report  March  2017  1 Executive Summary  
1. Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to recover . This was particularly the case for the U.S. economy where labor 
market conditions strengthened with investment poised to increase. The euro area economies gained traction 
through domestic consumption, while the Japanese economy continued to recover at a gradual pace. The Chinese 
economy was expected to slow down as a result of the ongoing economic reforms; however, the economic recovery 
in other Asian economies was expected to continue, driven by exports, especially those of electronic goods which 
benefit ed from the technological upcycle and the uptrend of Internet of Things (IoT) products. Overall, trading 
partner growth was revised upward. While there were greater upside risks compared with the previous 
assessment in the case that U.S. economic stimulus measures would turn out to be more effective than expected, 
the balance of risks to the trading partner growth forecast remained skewed downward.  This was due to 
U.S. trade policies, which involved potentially greater risks and uncertainties than the previ ous assessment. 
Meanwhile, risks concerning financial stability in China, political uncertainties in Europe, and problems faced by 
the European banking sector were judged to be unchanged from the previous assessment.  
Most central banks continued their acc ommodative monetary policy , although policy accommodation  was 
expected to phase down due to improvements in the global economic and inflation outlook. Despite the future 
direction becoming clearer, there remained uncertainty surrounding the timing and pace  of U.S. monetary policy 
normalization. There was also considerable uncertainty about the U.S. administration’s economic policies. These 
uncertainties were important in determining investors’ expectations. Consequently, volatilities in global financial 
markets were to be expected on the back of increased uncertainties, potentially resulting in volatile capital flows 
both into and out of emerging markets.  
Oil prices were projected to decline in the near term before trending upward later  in line with the OPEC’s 
agreement to cut production and the global economic recovery. However, taking into account uncertainty over the 
OPEC’s compliance and the possibility of a swift response of the global oil supply to higher prices, the Monetary 
Polic y Committee revised the projection of the Dubai oil price down to 52.3 dollars per barrel in 2017. The oil price 
was projected to rise to 54.8 dollars per barrel in 2018.  
2. Recent Economic Developments  
The Thai economy in the fourth quarter of 2016 contin ued to recover on the back of private consumption and 
public spending as well as the rebound in merchandise exports. Meanwhile, headline inflation over the first two 
months of 2017 continued to rise relative to the rate seen at the end of last year , due la rgely to higher energy 
prices. Meanwhile, core inflation slowed down slightly . 
Financial conditions  remained accommodative.  Long -term government bond yields rose due to external factors while 
short - and medium -term government bond yields increased only slightly.  Business loans showed signs of higher growth, 
especially working capital loans extended to exporters and agricultur e-related commercial businesses. Household loans 
slowed down in most categories. This was particularly the case for growth in credit card loans that significantly declined 
after having accelerated due to government stimulus measures during the end of last year. Meanwhile, the baht against 
the U.S. dollar appreciated in the same direction as regional currencies due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar, as market 
participants viewed details of U.S. economic stimulus policies still unclear. Financial stability remained sound overall. 
The defaults of bills of exchange (B/E) issued by unrated companies since the end of last year had a limited impact on 
the financial system and did not affect overall corporate bond issuance.  
3. Economic Outlook  
In the period ahead Thailand’s economic recovery was expected to gain further traction from 2016. The economy 
was projected to record growth of 3.4 percent and 3.6 percent in 2017 and 2018, respectively.  
Export growth showed a steady recovery as seen in many products.  The val ue of merchandise exports was 
projected to expand by 2.2 percent in 2017 led by (1) electronics products due to the increased popularity of smartphones 
and IoT  devices, (2) electrical appliances that benefitted from improved external demand, and (3) the relocation of 
manufacturing sites to Thailand of products such as vehicle tires and solar cells. Moreover, export prices of commodities 
and petroleum -related prod ucts were forecast to trend upward along with crude oil prices.  
Exports of services experienced a quick recovery and were projected to continue expanding after the impact of 
measures to curb illegal tour operators subsided. In addition, the extension of v isa fee reduction/exemption as well as 
the Chinese government’s restriction on sales of tour packages to South Korea were likely to bring in more Chinese 
tourists to Thailand. Therefore, the Committee revised up the projection of the number of foreign tour ists to 34.5 million 
in 2017.  Monetary Policy Report  March  2017  2 Public spending remained an important driver of growth  and was expected to record a higher figure than the 
previous assessment despite a delay in parts of the dual -track railway project due to the revision in the government’s 
procurement processes. This upgraded public spending projection was attributable to clearer investment plans under the 
Pracharat project, the higher -than-expected fiscal budget for fiscal year 2018, and the faster -than-expected budget 
disbursement for tele communications infrastructure upgrade.  
Private consumption was expected to continue recovering.  Key supporting factors are (1) improvements in farm 
income due to higher rubber prices and higher rice output, (2) a positive income outlook for households in t he service 
sector, and (3) some increase in purchasing power following the gradual completion of loan repayments under the first -
car scheme. However, overall income and employment might have not yet benefitted clearly from the recovery in 
merchandise expor ts, as the exports improvements were largely concentrated in the sectors which relied more on capital 
rather than labor for production.  
Private investment showed signs of recovery in some sectors  such as telecommunications, electronics, and 
alternative ene rgy. Although investment might not gain much from the recovery in private consumption and merchandise 
exports at this stage, as there remained excess production capacity, private investment was expected, going forward, to 
pick up once consumption and expor ts growth become firmer.  
Headline inflation was projected to gradually rise and approach the midpoint of the target due to the phasing out 
of the base effect from last year’s lower oil prices as well as increased demand pressure from the economic recovery . 
Nevertheless, headline inflation might fluctuate in the near term due to the base effects of higher fresh food prices during 
the drought last year. At the same time, downside risks increased, attributable to global oil prices that faced downward 
pressure s due to uncertainties pertaining to global oil supply. Headline inflation was projected to average at 1.2 and 
1.9 percent in 2017 and 2018, respectively.  
The balance of risks to growth and inflation forecasts tilted towards the downside and to a greater e xtent 
compared with the previous assessment.  This was on account of (1) uncertainty surrounding the U.S. foreign trade 
policies that could undermine exports and (2) financial stability concerns in China that could slow down China’s economic 
growth further.  Nonetheless, there remained a possibility that the Thai economy would grow at a faster rate than the 
baseline projection if public investment were to crowd in further private investment and if U.S. economic stimulus policies 
turned out to be more effectiv e than expected.  
4. Monetary Policy Deliberation  
In the Monetary Policy Committee meetings on 8 February and 29 March 2017, the Committee unanimously 
voted to keep the policy rate on hold at 1.50 percent. In deliberating their policy decision, the Committee 
considered that the growth outlook improved and that the economy would expand at a faster pace than the 
previous assessment.  This was on account of a steady recovery in exports and a quick turnaround in tourism. However, 
the positive spillovers f rom improvements in exports to employment and income remained limited. Private consumption 
and private investment, however, continued to recover at a gradual pace. Meanwhile, headline inflation had reached the 
lower bound of the target and was expected to gradually rise despite a downward revision to the forecasts due to lower 
inflation outturns and the recent decline in oil prices.  
Overall financial conditions remained accommodative.  Total corporate financing increased  mainly for those 
businesses with robu st recoveries. Meanwhile, the increase in long -term bond yields had a limited impact on financing 
costs because Thai businesses mainly issued short - and medium -term debt. The baht appreciated somewhat against 
major trading partners’ currencies over the rec ent period, partly due to Thailand’s relatively strong external position. In 
the period ahead, capital flows and exchange rates would continue to experience heightened volatility, and thus proper 
foreign exchange risk management on the part of the private sector would become increasingly important.   
Financial stability remained sound.  However, there remained pockets of risks that warranted close monitoring  
such as the deterioration in debt serviceability of SMEs and households, yield -seeking behavior that might lead to 
underpricing of risks, and shadow banking activities together with other risks that potentially remained unnoticed. 
Moreover, the prolonged period of low interest rates amid the rise in long -term bond yields might induce some businesses 
to rely more on issuance of short -term bonds which could pose a risk if there were maturity mismatches between assets 
and liabilities. In addition, collaboration among relevant regulatory agencies would play a greater role in reducing 
vulnerability buildups in Thailand’s financial system.  
Monetary policy should remain accommodative until the economy achieved a broader and firmer growth which 
would facilitate the return of inflation to the midpoint of the target , especially given that there remained uncertainties  
on the external front particularly those pertaining to the fragile global economic recovery and the U.S. foreign trade 
policies that might undermine export  recovery. The Committee would stand ready to utilize an appropriate mix of available 
policy tools i n order to ensure that monetary conditions remained conducive to the continuation of economic growth while 
ensuring financial stability.  Monetary Policy Report March 2017   3 1. The Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to  recover, providing support for Thailand’s economic growth.  
The U.S. economic recovery was gaining traction  thanks to  a significant  recovery in 
the labor market that supported domestic consumption. Moreover, improving business 
confidence after the presidential election, higher corporate profits , and rising oil prices from 
their lowest level s in the first quarter of 2016 led to a stronger recovery in private investment.  
The euro area  continued to expand , supported by consumption, accommodative  monetary 
policy , and more broad -based recovery in manufacturing . The Japanese economy  gradually 
recovered , underpinned by accommodative  monetary policy and the gradual recovery in 
domestic demand.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Looking ahead, the recovery of the advanced economies is still facing risks from the 
uncertainties of the U.S. policies on international trade, tax policy reform , and infrastructure 
investment. For the euro area, issues warrant close monitoring include political uncertainty 
especially the elections in France and Germany this year, problems in the European banking 
sector , and the Brexit process.  
China’s growth  slowed down following structural reform , while the Asian economies 
recovered as export s, especially  of electronics, improved.  
The Chinese economy  slowed down following the government’s economic structural 
reform.  The reform plan places more emphasis on lo ng-term economic stability by turning to 
economic development  on quality  rather than quantity, reduction of excess capacity on 
production , and less dependence on government investment. The Committee expected the 
Chinese economy to grow this year  in line with the government’s 6.5 percent target and 
expand by 6.2 percent in 2018. The Committee saw a need to closely monitor economic and 
financial stability risks in China, particularly the high level of corporate debt, speculati ve 
activities  in the re al estate sector , and capital outflow s. 
8090100110120
       5    6     Euro area Japan U.S.Chart 1.1 Domestic consumption in major advanced 
economies expanded, particularly in the U.S.
(retail sale  
Source: BloombergIndex (January 2014 = 100)Monetary Policy Report March 2017   4 Asian economies  (excluding Japan and China) recovered gradually,  supported by the 
continued export recovery in the fourth quarter of 2016 and better -than-expected latest 
economic indicators in the first quarter of 2 017. In particular, export of electronics products 
benefitted from the upturn of the technology cycle (Box: Implications of the electronics 
technology life -cycle and the rise of the Internet of Things for Asia’s exports ) while  export s of 
petroleum -related products also gained from higher oil prices. The export recovery already 
had some positive effects  on investment and employment in countries that are highly 
dependent on exports. Meanwhile, d omestic consumption increased gradually. Nevertheless , 
the Asian economic recovery in the period ahead still faces risks from (1) uncertainty in the 
U.S. trade policy which may impact  on trade and investment climate in the region; (2) elevated  
household debt and tighter liquidity weighing on consumption in some countries; and (3) 
changes in the global trade structure that can restrain  the Asian export recovery. In particular, 
developed economies turn more to domestic production instead of forei gn-based production, 
or relocate  production base s from Asia to lower -cost areas closer to their markets such as 
Eastern Europe and Mexico.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Growth prospects for Thailand’s trading partners improved, but downside risks remained.  
Economic growth of most Thailand’s trad ing partners was better than expected in the 
fourth quarter of 2016 and would likely  gain traction in the period ahead. The Committee 
revised the growth assumption for trading partners to 3.3 percent for 2017 and 2018. Major 
advanced economies, especially the U.S., showed stronger growth , while Asian exports 
recovered more firmly . Upside risks slightly increased as the U.S. economic stimulus policy 
could be implemented  more  than expected . Moreover, the investment cycle improved , 
partic ularly in the U.S. , and the  spillovers of  improvements of  Asian exports on domestic 
economi c activities  could  turn out to  be greater  than expected. However, downside risks still 
weighed on the global economy , as the impact of the U.S. trade policy could af fect China’s 
and Asia’s highly interlinked exports. Risks regarding financial instability in China and political 
uncertainty as well as problems in the banking sector in Europe  remained . 
 
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
           5    6     Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
PhilippinesChart 1.2  Recovery of Asian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)Monetary Policy Report March 2017   5   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Implications of  the electronics technology  life-cycle  
and the rise of the Internet of Things  for Asia’s exports  
Asia’s e xports continued to recover  in 
the second half of 2016 following  a prolonged 
period  of sluggish  growth . Commodities, food, 
and electronics products were key growth 
drivers , supported by three major factors: rising 
commodity prices, improving household purchasing  
power and consumer confidence in several 
economic regions, and the recovery cycle of 
electronics products.  Going forward, Asia's 
exports will continue to expand thanks to  the turn 
of the electronics products  life cycle . Key 
supporting factors for the upturn in electronics 
exports are:  
 (1) Intense competition in the electronics market has led to advancement of technology . 
Examples include the use of fingerprint sc anners on electrical appliances other than smart phones, 
small USB type -C that can transmit information at a faster rate, curved organic light emitting diodes 
(OLED ) screen in smartphones and TVs, dual camera s and improved LTE signal receptor s in 
smartphon es. This trend induces demand for these electronics parts.  
(2) Smartphones market s will continue to expand . Markets in developing countries such 
as India, Indonesia, and the Philippines still have a large room to grow because of their currently 
low penetra tion rates. Furthermore, consumers ’ desire to keep up with new technology will drive 
more demand for smartphones. A research company, Statista, estimates that worldwide 
smartphone users will increase by 10% and 9% in 2017 and 2018 , respectively. Going forw ard, 
this trend will support growth for smartphones and parts.  
Table 1.1 Assumption on trading partners’ economic growth
Annual change (%YoY) Weight (%) 2016 * 2017 2018
United States 14.9 1.6  2.3 (2.2) 2.4
Euro area 10.0 1.7 1.5 (1.1) 1.5
Japan 13.6 1.0 1.1  (1.1) 0.9
China 15.7 6.7 6.5  (6.3) 6.2
Asia (excluding Japan and China)* * 37.4 3.5 3.6  (3.5) 3.8
Total *   100 3.1 3.3 (3.1) 3.3
Note: *Outturn
* Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to   trading partners in     , namely 
Singapore (6.5%), Hong Kong (7.9%), Malaysia (8%), Taiwan (2.5%), Indonesia (5.9%), 
South Korea (2.8%), and the Philippines (3.7%)
** Weighted by a share of Thailand’s total exports to major    trading partners as of      
(including the United Kingdom and Australia)
( ) reported in Monetary Policy Report December 2016
60708090100110120
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17Chart 1  Asia's exports* are recovering especially for 
electronics products
Seasonally adjusted index (January 2013 = 100), Moving average 3 month 
Electronics products  (Export = 36.3%)
Other products (Export = 63.7%)
Note: * Asia including China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, 
Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand
(excluding Indonesia and the Philippines due to delayed data release )
Sources : CEIC by the Bank of Thailand's calculationExports by productMonetary Policy Report March 2017   6  (3) Growth of the Internet of Things (IoT)  will accelerate . The IoTs  refer to electronics aside 
from smartphones that can connect to other appliances. Examples include wearables, medical 
devices, household appliances, as well as other equipment used to improve productivity in the 
manufacturing and agricultural sectors. The se devices have capability to record user preferences 
and process information to enhance users ’ daily-life convenience. A nother  research firm, Gartner, 
estimates that the IoT technology is still in its early development stage and possesses a potential 
to grow at a fast pace of 30 -35% annually. By 2020, the production level of IoT devices could reach 
over 20 billion from the current level of 6 -7 billion devices per year. This  consequently  translates 
to rising demand for electronics parts as well.   
The above  factors suggest that exports of electronics from Asia including Thailand will 
steadily grow. As for Thailand, the public and private sectors must collaborate on development of 
the electronics industry, especially on research and development of new outputs  that responds to 
global demand such as IoT products. Doing so will provide a boost to Thai exports to fully benefit 
from the rapidly rising global demand for electronics in the future . 
 
Most central banks maintained accommodative monetary policy but with a lower degree of 
easing  going forward.  
Most central banks maintained accommodative monetary policy but with a lower 
degree of easing  going forward , on the back of improvements in the global economy and 
higher inflation. Over the recent period, demand -pull inflationary pressures increased in some 
countries, especially in the U.S. where  it approached full  employment amid  continuing stimulus 
fiscal policy. This led the Fed to raise the policy interest rate at the recent meeting on March  
14-15, 2017 by 25 basi s points to 0.75 -1.00 percent. This rate hike was earlier than  previously  
expected at the beginning of the year. Further increase s were  anticipated in the period ahead. 
Other central banks could also gradually reduce monetary policy  accommodation  as inflat ion 
increased.  
Volatility in the global financial markets rose as a result of increased uncertainty stemming 
from the U.S. economic policy, political concerns in Europe , and financial instability in 
China.  
In late 2016, the outcome of the U.S. presidential election and the Fed’s policy rate 
hike induced a net capital outflow from emerging market  economie s (EM Es) back to the U.S. 
Later in the beginning of 2017, however, uncertainty in the U.S. economic stimulus policy led 
to adjustments in investo r expectations and a return of investment in EMEs . Furthermore, 
investor expectations on key global factors, such as the pace of Fed rate hikes, could lead to 
changes in expectations on asset prices from time to time. In the first half of March, capital 
inflows to EMEs  slowed down , as investors expected the U.S. policy interest rate to increase  
earlier than previously anticipated  at the beginning of the year. On the other hand, for the latter 
half of March after the Fed’s rate hike, capital inflow s to EMEs  accelerated  as investors revised  
their expectations on the U.S. policy interest rate increase to be more gradual than previously  
expected . In addition , the U.S. administration was unable to pass the new American Health 
Care Act, adding more uncertainty regarding  the ability to push for other policy initiatives.  
 
 Monetary Policy Report March 2017   7 Looking forward, global financial market s remain highly volatile with fluctuation s in 
cross -border  capital movements due to uncertainty in U.S. economic policy , European political 
instability , and banking sector problems in both Europe and China . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oil prices  increased during the first two months of 2017 but could decline temporarily 
before gradually trending up in line  with the global economic recovery.  
Prices of Dubai crude oil increa sed, as the OPEC cut production , but started to 
fall recently given  the uncertain U.S. supply.  In November 2016, the OPEC reached an 
agreement to cut production and also managed a compliance rate of 93 percent, higher than 
their historical level and market expectation s. Rising demand from developing counties also 
pushed crude prices up to more than  50 U.S. dollars per barrel  during the beginning of 2017 . 
However, oil prices started to come down in March because the increase in supply was more 
than expected, especially those from the U.S.  
For the period ahead, crude prices are expected to  decline tem porarily before 
gradually trending up in line  with the global economic recovery and higher demand.  
Stock accumulation remained at a high level, especially in the U.S. Shale oil producers in the 
U.S. could quickly return to pump more supply. These factors c ontinued to pressure oil prices 
and weigh on their recovery in the future. As a result, the Committee revised the assumption 
on Dubai oil prices down to 52.3 and 54.8 U.S. dollars per barrel in 2016 and 2017, 
respectively. Risks to the assumption were adju sted to skew downward instead of a balanced 
risk in the previous assessment. This was mainly due to uncertainty in future compliance 
among OPEC producers to the agreed production level as well as oil production in the U.S. 
Meanwhile, u nrests in the Middle East and Africa such as the nuclear tests in Iran and 
terrorism in Nigeria and Libya carry risks that might bring  oil prices higher than anticipated.  
 
Chart 1.3  Foreign investors returned to the emerging 
markets since the beginning of 2017 . Foreign investment 
slowed down in the beginning of March before speeding 
up after the Fed’s rate hike as investors’ expectations 
were adjusted.
Accumulated capital inflow to emerging markets *
-1001020304050
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17Total Debt Flows Equity FlowsBillion U.S. dollar 
(1 January 2016 = 0)
Note: *Thailand, Indonesia, India, South Africa and Turkey 
(Turkish data as of 15 March 2017 )
Source: Institute of International FinanceU.S. Presidential election
Fed’s rate hikeMonetary Policy Report March 2017   8 Metal prices  were expected to surge over the short period due to greater demand 
from improving market confidence given  the U.S. economic policy, oil price recovery , and 
infrastructure investment in China. On the supply side, production was lowered in the short 
term due to problems in major producing countries, namely disputes between coppe r 
companies and the Indonesian government , together with  production cut in four large Chinese 
provinces. Looking ahead, metal prices would only slightly increase after having accelerated  
this year.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
020406080100120140
Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Dec 2016           Mar 2017U.S. dollar/barrelChart 1.4  Oil prices decline temporarily before gradually 
trending up along with the global economic recovery.
Assumption on Dubai oil priceMonetary Policy Report March 2017   9 2. The Thai Economy  
2.1 Recent developments  
The Thai economy continued to recover on the back of private consumption, public 
spending, and the rebound in exports of goods.  
  The Thai economy in the fourth quarter of 2016 expanded 3 percent from the same 
period last year. The key growth  drivers were private consumption, supported by higher farm 
income and government stimulus measures, expedited disbursement of the fiscal budget, and 
the resumption of growth in exports of goods following prior contractions. These drivers 
combined to suppo rt growth momentum and helped offset declines in private investment and 
the slowdown in exports of services that resulted from measures implemented to curb illegal 
tour operators. Overall, the Thai economy grew 0.6 percent from the previous quarter after 
seasonal adjustments. For the whole of 2016, the Thai economy expanded 3.2 percent, an 
improvement from 2.9 percent in 2015.  
 Thailand’s economic growth continued to gain traction over the first two months of 
2017. Private consumption recovered at a gradual  pace and was partly supported by the 
launch of new car models, while public spending continued to provide growth momentum. 
Private investment remained flat, however. In any case, rising external demand appeared to 
contribute to the swift recovery in touri sm that was previously affected by measures to curb 
illegal tour operators. Stronger external demand also led to the increasingly broad -based 
growth in export of goods such as certain agricultural products, electronics, electrical 
appliances, automotive an d parts, as well as petroleum -related products, all of which 
accounted for about 40 percent of total exports. Additionally, the improvement seen in the 
exports of electronics from Thailand was also supported by the technological upcycle and 
uptrend of Inte rnet of Things (IoT) products and was in line with exports of electronics from 
the region. Further growth opportunities was expected in the period ahead.    
The recovery in exports of goods had limited positive effects on employment, while household 
income  increased slightly for some household groups.  
 The recovery in exports of goods had limited positive effects on employment because 
(1) the recovery was still at the early stages, (2) most of the improvements seen were in 
capital -intensive industries, such  as the electronics industry which accounts for only 1.2 
percent of total employment, and (3) increasing adoption of automation in the manufacturing 
processes by some industries in response to labor shortage and to enhance productivity.     
 Household inco me increased slightly but the increase was not broad -based and thus 
did not spur private consumption as much as it should. For instance, the increase in farm 
income due to higher rubber prices was limited to rubber farmers in the eastern and the 
northeaste rn regions, while rubber farmers in the south suffered from lower rubber output due 
to the floods. Meanwhile, rice prices were stable but remained at low levels. Meanwhile, the 
recovery in non -farm income remained subdued overall despite increases due to h igher 
employment in some service sectors, namely wholesale and retail trade, because wages in 
these sectors were rather low.  Monetary Policy Report March 2017   10 Headline inflation1/ rose from the end of last year and returned to the lower bound of the 
inflation target on account of higher e nergy prices, while core inflation declined slightly.  
Headline inflation  in the first two 
months of 2017 increased from the end of 
last year, averaging at 1.49 percent. The 
increase was attributable to (1) the increase 
in retail oil prices due to higher global crude 
prices and (   the base effect of last year’s 
lower crude prices. Meanwhile, fresh food 
prices fell on account of lower meat prices 
as well as higher output of vegetable and fruits. 
The one -year-ahead inflation expectations  of 
businesses were roughly around the 
previous figure at 2.1 percent, while 
medium -term inflation expectations of the 
public remained close to the midpoint of the 
target at 2.5 percent.  
      Core inflation  in the first two 
months of 2017 slowed down from the 
previous quarter, averaging at 0.67 
percent. The main reason behind the 
slowdown was the base effect of last 
year’s higher tobacco prices due to an 
increase in excise tax on tobacco, as well 
as subdued demand -pull inflationary 
pressures given the gradual pace of the 
domestic economy recovery and low farm 
income. At the same time, cost -push 
inflationary pressures rose somewhat from higher oil prices but the results of the Business 
Sentiment Survey2/ revea led a higher ratio of respondents that indicated greater difficulty 
in raising prices, suggesting the existence of short -term constraints faced by producers in 
making corresponding price adjustments.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
1/ The Ministry of Commerce changed the base year for CPI from 2011 to 2015  
2/ The Business Sentiment Survey covers about 600 business operators per month across the country  
-4-20246
Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016JanFebFresh food  (15.69%) Energy (11.75%)
Core inflation  (72.56%) Headline inflationPercent
Note: () denotes share in inflation basket
Source: Ministry of Commerce, calculation by Bank of ThailandChart 2.1 Headline inflation rose from the end of last year 
and returned to the target
Inflation target (2.5  1.5%)
2017Headline inflation and inflation target
0510152025
0.00.51.01.52.02.5
Q1
2510Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Core inflation Average non-farm income (RHS)Percentage change 
from previous quarter
Source: National Statistics Office and Ministry of CommercePercentage change 
from same period last yearChart 2.2 Average non -farm income saw subdued recovery 
as demand -pull inflationary reassures remained low.
Core inflation and growth of non -farm income
Table 2.1 Inflation
2017
Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan - Feb
Headline CPI -1.11 -0.86 -0.50 0.30 0.26 0.69 1.49
Core CPI 0.92 0.85 0.67 0.79 0.76 0.73 0.67
Fresh food 1.48 1.45 1.52 4.24 2.58 1.54 1.20
Energy -16.42 -14.63 -11.41 -8.95 -7.00 -1.06 8.07
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of CommercePercent2015 2016Monetary Policy Report March 2017   11 Government bond yields increased due to external factors.  
Short -term money market rates  
in the first quarter of 2017 remained close 
to the policy rate. Government bond 
yields  in the beginning of the first quarter 
declined from the end of 2016 mainly as 
a result of concerns over political 
uncertainties in Europe and unclear 
direction of U.S. economic policies. Since 
early March, government bond yields 
edged up following intervi ews of several 
members of the Federal Open Market 
Committee (FOMC) which prompted 
market expectations that the FOMC 
would decide to raise the fed funds rate in 
its meeting in March. After the FOMC did 
raise the fed funds rate in its March 
meeting, however,  Thai government bond 
yields fell as the accompanying statement 
to the decision was more dovish than the 
market expected. On the whole, short -
and medium -term bond yields remained 
below levels at the end of 2016, while 
long-term yields increased.  
Corporate  bond yields trended 
up alongside increases in long -term 
government bond yields and credit 
spreads, which tightened financial 
conditions  somewhat. However, the impact on the private sector’s financing costs appeared 
limited as debt issued by most Thai busi nesses were of 1 -3 years maturity, the yields of which 
increased only slightly and remained below historical averages.       
Growth in private credit improved with signs of increase in some business sectors.  
Business credit, especially those extended to ex port-related sectors, started to show 
signs of growth, while household credit continued to expand albeit at a slower pace. 
Consequently, private credit overall at the end of February 2017 grew 3.9 percent from the 
same period of last year, higher than the 3.5 percent growth recorded at the end of the fourth 
quarter of 2016.3/ 
 
 
                                                           
3/ Outstanding credit of other depositary corporations (ODC) namely commercial banks, specialized financial 
institutions, finance companies, saving cooperatives, and money market mutual funds.  
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan-16 Apr-16 Jul-16 Oct-16 Jan-17% p.a.
1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10YChart 2.3 Government bond yields rose in response to 
external factors
Sources: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Government bond yields
Basis Points
Source: Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)Chart 2.4 Short -term and medium -term bond yields 
were lower than at the end of 2015 , but long -term yields 
increased.
-15-10-5051015
1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10YChanges in government bond yields relative to the end of 2016
(As of March 28, 2017)Monetary Policy Report March 2017   12  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in business credit  outstanding began to show signs of faster growth, 
although growth remained concentrated in export -oriented businesses, particularly those 
related to exports of rubber and plastic, which was in line with improvements seen in the 
export sector. Working capital credit ex tended to exporters in the first two months of 2017 on 
average grew 8.5 percent from the same period last year which was an acceleration from just 
0.8 percent growth recorded in the fourth quarter of 2016. On the other hand, growth in 
working capital credi t extended to domestic businesses and investment credit were more 
subdued. Business credit extended to the commercial sector saw improved growth, especially 
among businesses related to agricultural raw materials. As for other financing channels, 
financing through short -term debt instruments softened somewhat in January, especially 
those issued by unrated companies as reflected by the decline in the rollover ratio of unrated 
bonds. Financing through the equity market also slowed down slightly in February whe re most 
new equity were issued by factory and warehouse development/rental businesses.      
Change in household credit outstanding continued to decelerate as private 
consumption growth was not particularly strong. Growth in consumer credit extended by 
comm ercial banks in the first two months of 2017 decelerated, especially credit card loans 
which previously accelerated due to government stimulus measures rolled out in December 
2016. Car loans, however, increased slightly following launches of new car models . 
Going forward, financial conditions were expected to remain accommodative 
but could tighten somewhat as the Fed continues to raise the fed funds rate . In response 
to such developments, Thai bond yields might increase, although they would likely remain 
below their 2015 averages. In addition, credit demand was still soft, as reflected in the credit 
utilization rate which remained close to the level seen in the previous quarter. According to 
the survey of credit conditions and outlook4/, financial institutio ns would still maintain caution 
in extending credit throughout the first quarter of 2017, especially to borrowers whose credit 
quality declined in recent periods.  
                                                           
4/ Survey of credit conditions in the fourth quarter of 2016 and outlook for the first quarter of 2017 . 
Source: Bank of ThailandChart 2.5 Growth in private credit
Growth of private credit
Note: Outstanding credit of other depository corporations (ODC ) namely 
commercial banks, specialized financial institutions, finance 
companies, saving cooperatives, and money market mutual funds05101520
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Business credit Household credit
Total private credit
4.0
3.83.9Percentage change from same period last yearMonetary Policy Report March 2017   13 The baht appreciated against the U.S. dollar in line with movements of regional currencies .  
From the fourth quarter of 2016 to the first quarter of 2017 , the baht strengthened 
against the U.S. dollar as with most regional currencies. Such appreciation resulted from a 
weaker U.S. dollar due to lack of clarity regarding U.S. expansionary economic policies and 
negative comments made by the U.S. president on the U.S. dollar’s strength. Meanwhile, 
market ex pectations regarding the Fed’s 
monetary policy normalization path led to 
greater volatility in the value of the baht 
as well as other regional currencies. 
Consequently, during the first half of 
March 2017, the baht and regional 
currencies weakened against the U.S. 
dollar as market participants viewed 
monetary policy normalization in the U.S. 
to proceed faster than previously 
expected. In the latter half of March 
2017, however, the baht and regional 
currencies resumed appreciation against 
the U.S. dollar as the market reassessed 
the rise in the fed funds rate to be more gradual, and as the U.S. government failed to pass a 
new health care bill. It was also observed that these changes in the expectations of foreign 
investors affected Thailand more than other co untries, especially in terms of portfolio inflows. 
The baht closed at 34.42 on March 28, 4.0 percent stronger than at the end of the previous 
quarter. Meanwhile, the nominal effective exchange rate (NEER) closed at 109.52, up 1.3 
percent from the end of the previous quarter, mainly due to the baht’s appreciation against the 
U.S. dollar and the yuan5/. Going forward, international capital flows and exchange rates would 
likely remain volatile due to prevailing external uncertainties, especially those related to the 
timing and pace of monetary policy normalization in U.S. and the clarity of the U.S. 
expansionary economic policies.  
Financial stability remained sound, but there still were pockets of risks that continued to 
warrant close monitoring such as debt r epayment ability of households and SMEs, excess 
supply of housing in some areas, and the search -for-yield behavior.     
Thailand’s economic and financial stability remained sound. Financial institutions 
maintained high levels of capital buffers and provisi ons for loan losses to cushion against risks 
stemming from declining credit quality. Financial positions of listed companies overall 
projected a more positive outlook. Meanwhile, Thailand’s external stability remained strong 
and able to provide cushion aga inst volatilities in global financial markets. Nevertheless, there 
were still pockets of risks that continued to warrant monitoring. One such risk was the debt 
repayment ability of households which remained fragile because of the elevated levels of debt, 
even as debt repayment ability continued to improve thanks to decelerating household debt 
and increasing farm income. Nevertheless, household debt showed signs of improvements 
overall as the ratio of household debt to GDP declined from 81.2 percent in the f ourth quarter 
                                                           
5/ The baht appreciated against the yuan because since the end of 2015 the yuan moved in tandem with the U.S. 
dollar.  
32
33
34
35
36
37 9095100105110115
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct JanIndex
2015 2016 2017USDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
DXYChart 2.6 The baht strengthened against the U.S. dollar as the 
U.S. dollar weakened across the board
USDTHB, NEER, DXY
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (latest data on March   , 201 )Baht per U.S. dollarMonetary Policy Report March 2017   14  of 2015 to 79.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016. On the other hand, debt repayment 
ability of SMEs was declining because the economic recovery were not yet broad -based. 
Additionally, the property market’s ability to absorb condominium s tock also warranted 
monitoring as demand for housing would likely stay flat after the government’s real estate 
stimulus measures expired, while excess supply of housing, especially condominium units in 
certain areas and price ranges,  remained large. This c ould impact debt repayment ability of 
real estate developers with weaker financial positions.       
The search -for-yield behavior remained present in the low interest rate environment. 
Notably, investment in foreign investment funds (FIFs) continued to grow; however, most FIFs 
invest in investment -grade securities of countries such as the United Arab Emi rates, Hong 
Kong, Qatar, Singapore, China, and Luxemburg. Meanwhile, investment in money market 
mutual funds that appeared similar to saving accounts slowed down since the fourth quarter 
of 2016. In addition, recent defaults of unrated bills of exchange si nce the end of last year had 
limited impact on the financial system, but some companies with fragile financial standings 
were prone to default on their debt repayment and thus continued to warrant close monitoring. 
(Box: Developments in the unrated bonds m arket and implications for financial stability  stability )      
 
Developments in the unrated bond market  
and implications for financial stability  
Rapid growth of unrated bonds and the series of defaults in unrated bills of exchange (B/E) in 
the past 3 -4 months have drawn  the attention of the MPC  and warranted close  monitoring. Such 
development was also part of the MPC’s assessment of financial stability risks that could arise from the 
search -for-yield behavior in the low  interest  rate environment.  
 Recent  developments in the unrated bond  market were found  not to affect Thailand's 
financial stability  for several reasons . First, the size of the unrated bond market remained small . 
Despite its rapid expansion from a low base , unrated bonds accounted for only 7.4% of total private 
bond s outstanding6/. Furthermore, the total value of recent unrated bond defaults accounted for just 
0.08% of total private bond outstanding. Second,  regulations set by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission (SEC) limited investment in unrated bonds to a small group  of accredited investors 
(AI), namely institutional investors and high -net-worth individuals who have the ability to absorb a 
significant amount of risks. If general retail investors were to comprise a lion’s share of unrated bond 
holders, t he impact of the recent defaults could be more severe and widespread . Third, recent defaults 
had limited spillovers to other parts of the financial institutions system . There were  only three  
asset manage ment firms that invested  in the defaulted unrated bonds through AI fund s, and t heir 
combined default value accounted for  only 0.035% of  the total net asset value of mutual funds . 
Additionally, the money invested mainly came from investors ’ own saving s rather than loans on margin 
accounts . Therefore, such a  loss did not affect stability of other financial institutions . Finally,  market 
adjustments following the defaults proceeded in an orderly fashion without any impact on the 
overall functioning of the priva te bond  market . Issuers of unrated bonds matur ing in January 2017 
were still able to roll  over their debts , while other corporates were also able to obtain financing through 
bank loans, capital markets, and other financing channels. Nonetheless, recent  defaults provoked 
greater caution on the part of investors and had led to a repricing of risks as reflected in the shrinking 
portion of new  short -term bond  issuance  of both rated and unrated bonds . The BOT ’s preliminary 
analysis f ound that market participants were able to price bonds more accurately  as reflected  by the 
                                                           
6/ Data as of January 2017. Data included total private sector bonds in Thailand both registered and not registered 
with the Thai Bond Market Association (TBMA). If consider only private sector bonds registered with the TBMA, 
unrated bonds accounted for 4.5%.  Monetary Policy Report March 2017   15  higher  costs of funds for businesses with weaker financial position s relative to those with a stronger 
position. Such development was welcomed for, as  it would  reduce risks stemming from businesses' 
overreliance on short -term funding as well as  underpricing of risks on the part of investors.  
Despite its limited impact, the recent defaults of unrated B/Es gave an important lesson for all 
stakeholders to adjust and exercise  greater caution to  avoid  underpricing of risks , which might  lead to 
the accumulation of imbalances  that could  undermine financial stability in the future. In addition, bond 
issuers  should also be mindful of  maturity mismatch es and rollover risks by avoidi ng the use of short -
term funding for longer -term projects , and maintaining sufficient liquidity cushions as well as access to  
alternative funding sources in the event that debt rollover were not possible.  Financial intermediaries  
that bridg e the gap between investors and bond issue rs, such as asset management and securities 
companies , should be more prudent in preselecting  securities for investors and make investment 
recommendations that are appropriate for investor risk profiles. Investors  should als o be mindful of  the 
risks associated with financial products  they are investing in and not just expected returns. Moreover, 
investors  should heed the  importance of financial statement analysis as well as  risk diversif ication 
across different securities . 
Going forward, the MPC would  continue to closely monitor developments in the unrated bond  
market and other parts of the financial system for signs of underpricing of risks and other financial 
imbalances that could threaten financial stability. The MPC also v iewed collaboration between various 
regulatory bodies and market participants to be  increasingly important for effective risk monitoring  and 
assessment, together with appropriate measures to manage risks  that might arise in the future . 
 
2.2 Outlook for the Thai economy  
 Under the Committee’s assessment, Thailand’s economic recovery was 
projected to gain further traction from 2016 and record growth of 3.4 percent in 2017 
and 3.6 percent in 2018 . Growth was expected to be driven by (1) the gr adual recovery of 
exports of goods and services, supported by the global economic recovery and the swift 
recovery in tourism that was previously affected by measures to curb illegal tour operators, 
thanks in part to the extension of visa fee reduction/waiv er period7/, (2) fiscal impulse from 
public spending and investment in large infrastructure projects that would bolster private 
sector confidence and spur private investment in related areas, and (3) the gradual expansion 
in private consumption on the back  of improving household income, declining debt burden 
from the first -car scheme, and low inflation that would sustain purchasing power of 
consumers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
7/ Extension of the 1,000 baht reduction of visa -on-arrival fee and a visa fee waiver on tourists from 19 countries 
from February 2017 to August 2017.  
Table  2.2  Summary of forecasts 
Percent 2016* 2017 2018
GDP growth 3.2 3.4 (3.2) 3.6 
Headline inflation 0.2 1.2 (1.5) 1.9
Core inflation 0.7 0.7 (0.8) 1.0
Note: * Outturn
() Monetary Policy Report December 2016
Sources: NESDB, Ministry of Commerce, Bank of Thailand’s estimatesMonetary Policy Report March 2017   16  Summary of key forecast assumptions  
  Trading partners’ economies were projected to continue recovering  and record higher growth 
than previously assessed given stronger growth in major economies, especially the U.S., and 
a firmer recovery in Asian exports.  
  The fed funds rate was raised at the FOMC meeting in March 2017, sooner than expected in 
the previous Monetary Policy Report . However, the expected number of policy rate hikes was 
still projected to total three times this year, and another three hikes next year.  
  Asian currencies (excluding the Chinese yuan) were projected to remain close to  the previous 
assessment, i.e., weakening in response to increases in the fed funds rate.  
  The Dubai crude oil price was still expected to trend up  but at a slower pace than the previous 
projection due to higher crude oil supply —particularly from the re sumption of shale oil 
production in the U.S. as prices increased.  
  Prices of non -energy commodities , particularly metals, were expected to be higher due to 
temporary supply disruptions as a result of disputes at major mining sites.  
  Farm income was exp ected to improve on account of higher prices and output. Rice output, in 
particular, returned to normal levels after the drought subsided. Meanwhile, rubber prices 
increased in tandem with higher oil prices and increased demand from China. Farm income in 
2018 was projected to continue increasing as weather conditions were expected to return to 
normal.  
  Public spending at current price was projected to be higher than the previous assessment 
given that the fiscal budget for 2018 approved by the cabinet was larger than expected, and 
the details on the budget for the Pracharat project became clearer.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table  Summary of the main assumptions
2016* 2017 2018
Dubai crude oil price (U.S. dollar per barrel) 41.4 52.3 (53.5) 54.8
Non-oil commodity prices (%YoY) -1.9 7.0 (1.2) -0.3
Farm income (%YoY) 3.2 5.4 (1.9) 4.3
Public spending at current price (billion baht )1/2,454 2,570 (2,547) 2,687
Public investment at current price (billion baht )1/936 1,082 (1,089) 1,202
Fed funds rate (% at yearend) 0.63 1.38 (1.38) 2.13
Trading partners’ economic growth rate (% YoY)2/3.1 3.3 (3.1) 3.3
Regional exchange rate index (ex-China ) per U .S. dollar3/154.5 160.2 (160.3) 161.7
Notes: 1/ Including the spending assumption for the infrastructure investment project
              2/ Weighted by the share of Thai exports to each trading partner
                     3/ Higher figures represent depreciation , lower figure represents appreciation
               * Outturn
              ( ) Monetary Policy Report December 2016Percent Monetary Policy Report March 2017   17 Export of goods exhibited a stronger recovery across many product groups.  
The value of exported goods  
was expected to grow 2.2 percent in 
2017 and 2.0 percent in 2018. The 
firmer global economic recovery had a 
positive impact on Thai exports which 
began to show signs of recovery since 
the fourth quarter of 2016. Exports of 
electronics and electrical compo nents, 
in particular, benefited from the 
increasing popularity of smart phones 
and Internet of Things (IoT) products in 
foreign markets. At the same time, the 
relocation of production sites to Thailand  
by some manufacturers contributed to 
additional produc tion capacity for products such as car tires and solar cells. Exports of food 
and agricultural goods also began to improve as the shortage of domestic raw materials 
eased. Aside from the more positive outlook for export volume, export prices were projected  
to increase in tandem with crude oil prices, especially commodities such as rubber and oil -
related goods such as petroleum products.   
Nevertheless, Thailand’s export outlook remained constrained by shifts in the global 
trade structure as well as some diff iculties faced by domestic producers that might take time 
to resolve, such as the declining consumer demand for hard disk drives and the loss of 
competitiveness in textile and garment production. Moreover, in the period ahead, there 
remained risks stemming  from potential changes in the U.S. trade policies that could affect 
global trade, and other downside risks that could contribute to slower -than-expected global 
growth.  
Exports of services swiftly recovered and were expected to continue expanding.  
Exports  of services were expected to record strong growth on the back of 
tourism. The number of foreign tourists recovered rapidly from the impact of the curb on 
illegal tour operators in the previous period (Box 3: Thailand’s tourism outlook ), partly thanks 
to the extension of the visa fee reduction/waiver which helped eased expenses for foreign 
tourists. While measures to curb illegal tour operators negatively impacted the growth of 
Chinese tourists traveling on group tours over the short run, these measures wou ld help raise 
the standards and quality of tourism -related services and benefit Thailand’s tourism in the 
longer term. In addition, the limit on sales of tour packages to Korea imposed by the Chinese 
authorities on Chinese tourists was expected to induce s ome Chinese tourists to visit Thailand 
instead. In this light, the Committee raised the estimates of foreign tourists to 34.5 and 
37.1 million in 2017 and 2018, respectively.   
Given the firmer recovery in the exports of goods, growing exports of services, and 
higher oil prices, albeit lower than past projections, Thailand’s current account was 
projected to record a surplus of 36.9 and 33.1 billion U.S. dollar in 2017 and 2018, 
respectively.   
Chart 2.7 Export of goods exhibited a stronger recovery 
across many product groups, especially electronics
708090100110120130
Jan-13 Jul-13 Jan-14 Jul-14 Jan-15 Jul-15 Jan-16 Jul-16 Jan-17Electrical appliances (5.8) Vehicle parts (6.3)
Motorcycles (0.6) Petroleum-related (10.6)
Electronics ex. HDD (8.3) Agricultural products (7.0)
Note: Number indicated in () denote share to total exports in 2016
Source: Customs Department, calculation by Bank of Thailand.Seasonally adjusted index, 3 -month moving average
(January 2013 = 100)Value of exported goodsMonetary Policy Report March 2017   18 Thailand’s tourism outlook  
Thailand ’s exports of tourism services continued to expand in 2016 and remained an 
important driver of growth.  The tourism industry faced some obstacles in the fourth quarter of 2016 
due to the government ’s effort to tackle illegal tours as well as  the reduced entertainment activities . Yet 
the industry’s overall  growth remained high. Revenue s from tourism made up 12. 3% of Thailand ’s GDP 
with a large share of income coming from European and Ch inese tourists (Chart s 1 and 2).  
For 2017, tourism receipt s are projected to expand in tandem  with the global economic 
recovery , supported by greater travel ing convenience  as well as declining travel costs due to the 
expansion of low -cost airlines  routes . Revenue s from exports were  expected to reach 12.8% of GDP 
this year. The number of foreign tourists was also projected to grow 5. 8%, faster than the global  average 
(Chart 3) , which reflected  an increasing market share for Thailand in global tourism .  
Going forward, t he Thai government plans to tap into other potential markets to improve both 
the quantity and quality of tourists by: 
(1) Raising the number of inbound tourists , especially  from CLMV  
The government is pursuing collaborative measures with CLMV governments , such as signing 
a memorandum of understanding ( MOU ) to support cross -border tourism and co -organizing tourism 
promotion programs along with improving transportation connectivity within the region under the “Five 
Countries, One Destination ” plan.  
(2) Attracting tourists with high spending per trip to increase tourism revenue s 
Tourists from the Americas and the Middle East , for instance,  spend as much as 73,000 baht 
per person per trip (average spending by foreign tourists is 50,364 baht/person/trip). Strategies 
deployed to attract this group include partnering with major airlines from the Americas and the Middle 
East. Another strategy involves attracting  Chinese tourists, which still have high growth 
potential,  through visa  fee waivers and the promotion of Thailand tourism in China. Nevertheless, the 
government’s ability to successfully restructur e the tourism industry toward quality growth and its 
progress  in improving infrastructure and public services so that tourism coul d be a sustainable driver of 
growth remains to be seen . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
460 439
102 97
5489
0200400600
Europe China Americas CLMV Middle 
EastOthersTotal  1,641 billion baht,  growth 14.7 %YoYTourism revenue in 2016
Billion baht
(28%)      (27%)     (3%)      (6%)       (3%)  (30%)      (13.3%)  (15.2%) 
 (18.4%)  (21.4%) 
 (15.6%)  (7.0%) 
Source: Department of Tourism(share)
Note   denote growth compared to the previous yearChart 1  A majority of tourism receipt came from 
European and Chinese tourists.
3.96.19.4
3.98.48.9
3.55.55.8*
0246810
World Asia and the
PacificThailand%YoYProjected tourist arrivals by destination in 2017
Note:  Projected by Bank of Thailand
Source: UNWTO (January 2017 ) and the Bank of Thailand05-15 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016    05-15 05-15Chart 3  Tourist arrivals in Thailand was 
projected to grow.
8.8
6.2
3.3
1.40.712.2
02468101214
China Europe CLMV Americas Middle 
EastOthers (1 . %) 
 (9.6% ) 
 (  . %) 
 (13.8%)  (13.5%)  (4.7%) 
(2 %)      (19%)      (10%)      (4%)        (2%)   (38%)     
Source: Department of TourismInternational arrivals in 2016Chart 2  Chinese tourists made up the largest 
share of all international arrivals.
Total 32.6 million persons, growth 8.9 %YoYMillion  persons
Note   denote growth compared with the previous year(share)Monetary Policy Report March 2017   19 Public spending was projected to pick up.  
Public spending was expected to remain a key growth driver throughout the forecast 
horizon, attributable mainly to investment by the central government and state -owned 
enterprises. Public spending was expected to be higher than projected in the previous 
Monetary Policy Report  due to (1) greater clarity in the details of the Pracharat projects, (2) 
higher -than-expected fiscal budget for 2018 approved by the cabinet, and (3) faster budget 
disbursement for the telecommunication infrastructures upgrade project8/. However, 
investment by state -owned enterprises was slower than expected due to the partial 
rescheduling of this year’s dual -track rail construction to next year as a result of the 
procurement process review. In addition, risk to the public spending fore cast remained tilted 
to the downside, as the implementation of public investment projects potentially faced longer -
than-expected delays.  
Private consumption was expected to recover at a gradual pace.  
 Private consumption was projected to gradually expand in the period ahead driven by 
(1) improved farm income due to higher rubber prices that resulted from higher oil prices and 
increased demand from China, and also due to higher rice output gains as the weather 
conditions returned to normal, (2) robust incom e growth for households in the service sector 
supported by strong growth in services and tourism, and (3) declining debt burden from the 
first-car scheme that would help households’ purchasing power somewhat. Nevertheless, in 
the short term, income and emp loyment in the manufacturing sector did not benefit much from 
the recovery of the exports of goods as the recovery was mostly related to products 
manufactured in capital -intensive industries.  
Private investment showed signs of recovery in certain business sectors.  
       Private investment was projected to recover going forward , but growth would 
likely remain low. There were signs of recovery emerging in certain business sectors such as 
telecommunications and electronics that benefited from growing demand f or related products, 
and in alternative energy businesses that received investment benefits from the BOI. In the 
near term, private investment might not benefit much from the recovery in private consumption 
and merchandise exports, as production capacity r emained ample. In the period ahead, 
however, private investment would likely pick up as private consumption and exports would 
gain stronger traction. Government policies would also play a critical role in supporting private 
investment through public -privat e partnership (PPP), plans to expedite infrastructure 
investment, and industrial estate developments in the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), all 
of which would help bolster business confidence and attract foreign investment to Thailand.  
Inflation was expe cted to gradually rise.  
 In the period ahead, inflationary pressures were projected to increase from both 
demand - and supply -side factors.  Demand -pull inflationary pressures would increase 
gradually in tandem with the economic recovery, as reflected in the closing output gap. Cost -
push pressures in 2017 would rise on account of a strong rebound in oil and commodity prices 
                                                           
8/ National digital infrastructure development project on hi -speed internet network expansion using optical fiber 
cables  Monetary Policy Report March 2017   20 from a low base in  the previous year, 
despite being partially offset by the base 
effect of higher fresh food prices during 
the drought in 2016. Upward cost 
pressures were expected in 2018 because 
of projected increases in fresh food prices 
as conditions return to normal and  also the 
gradual increase in oil prices.  
 The Committee viewed that 
headline inflation would rise and gradually 
approach the midpoint of the target. Core 
inflation was projected to average at 
0.7 percent in 2017 and 1.0 percent in 2018 and headline infla tion was projected to 
average at 1.2 percent in 2017 and 1.9 percent in 2018.  
Growth and inflation forecasts faced more downside risks than upside risks.  
 The Committee assessed that there were more downside risks than upside risks 
to the growth projectio n, and the overall balance of risks tilted further to the downside 
compared with the previous assessment.  Such assessment reflected the growth forecast 
fan chart that remained skewed to the downside throughout the forecast horizon and to a 
greater extent t han in the previous Monetary Policy Report . An important downside risk was 
the uncertainty surrounding the U.S. trade policies that could affect the global economic 
outlook and lead to a significant slowdown in Thailand’s trading partner economies. In 
addition, public investment might face delays especially in larger investment projects. 
Meanwhile, financial stability concerns in China continued to warrant close monitoring. On the 
other hand, there were some upside risks to the baseline growth projections. Public 
investment might crowd in more private investment than in the baseline scenario. The U.S. 
economy might achieve stronger growth from its domestic stimulus policies. In line with risks 
to growth, the Committee viewed the forecasts for headline and co re inflation to be subject to 
more downside risks than upside risks.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-2024
Q1 
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Q1
2017Q1
2018Chart 2.8 Output Gap
Percent
-404812
-404812
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q1 2018Chart 2.9 Growth forecasts
% change from same period of last year
Note: Fan chart covers 90 percent of probability distributionQ1             Q1        Q1            Q1            Q1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018Monetary Policy Report March 2017   21  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-202468
-4-202468
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q1 2018Inflation target (2.5 +1.5)Chart 2.10 Headline inflation forecasts
% change from same period of last year
Note: Fan chart covers 90 percent of probability distribution      Q1            Q1            Q1              Q1                 Q1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
-2-101234
-2-101234
Q1 2014 Q1 2015 Q1 2016 Q1 2017 Q1 2018Chart 2.11 Core inflation forecasts
% change from same period of last year
Note: Fan chart covers 90 percent of probability distributionQ1               Q1                Q1           Q1            Q1
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018
Table 2.3 Forecasts of GDP and components
2016* 2017 2018
GDP growth 3.2 3.4 (3.2) 3.6
Domestic demand 2.7 3.2 (3.2) 3.3
     Private consumption 3.1 2.7 (2.6) 3.1
     Private investment 0.4 2.4 (1.6) 3.7
     Government consumption 1.6 2.2 (3.2) 1.9
     Public investment 9.9 11.8 (11.9) 7.5
Volume of exported goods and services 2.1 2.1 (0.6) 2.8
Volume of imported goods and services -1.4 2.6 (2.4) 2.9
Current account (billion, U.S. dollars) 46.4 36.9 (26.9) 33.1
Value of exported goods 0.0 2.2 (0.0) 2.0
Value of imported goods -4.7 7.2 (7.8) 5.3
Note: *Outturns
             ( ) Monetary Policy Report December 2016Annual percentage changeMonetary Policy Report March 2017   22 3. Monetary Policy 
The Committee viewed the Thai economy to have improved and would expand at a pace  
faster than previously assessed.   
 The Committee viewed  that the Thai economic outlook had improved on the back of a 
stronger recovery of merchandise exports. Tourism quickly recovered after having been 
impacted by the government’s regulation on illegal tours. However, the spillovers of imp roving 
exports on employment and household income remain ed limited. Meanwhile, private 
investment still concentrated in some export -oriented businesses. As a result, domestic 
demand would recover  only at a gradual pace. The Committee viewed that the Thai e conomy 
would face considerable uncertainties on the external front, particularly those pertaining to 
international trade policy in the U.S.  that remain subject to uncertainty, together with  potential  
responses by its major trading partners. These could und ermine Thai exports in the period 
ahead. The Committee would closely monitor developments that might affect the continuation 
of and risks to the Thai economic recovery  in order to formulate  appropriate monetary policy.  
 The Committee projected  inflation to be lower than the projection  in the previous 
Monetary Policy Report  due to lower -than-expected outturns  and the downward revision of oil 
price projection . Headline inflation already returned to the lower bound of the target and was 
expected to gradually rise. Nevertheless, headline inflation could  fluctuate in the near  term 
due to the base effect caused by elevated  fresh food prices during the drought last year. Also, 
there were  more downside risks in connected with  variations in global oil prices given the  
uncertainties of global oil supply . Core inflation would stay at a low level, reflecting low 
demand -pull inflationary pressures due to the  slowly recovering domestic demand. 
Meanwhile, the public’s medium -term inflat ion expectations remained close to the midpoint of 
the target.  
Overall financial conditions remained accommodative. Total financing increased for 
businesses that were well recovering . Financing costs edged up somewhat but would not 
significantly affect co rporate financing.  
 The Committee deemed overall financial conditions accommodative and conducive to 
economic growth with ample liquidity in the financial system and low real interest rates. 
Commercial bank loans grew at a low rate , with growth concentrat ed in loans extended  to 
large corporates and SMEs in manufacturing and trade sectors  with a recovery outlook . The 
low credit growth was partly a result of falling  loan demand by businesses and households. At 
the same time, banks remained cautious  in lendin g, especially to SMEs and households , given  
the outlook  for nonperforming loans . Nonetheless, the Committee assessed that overall 
financing costs of the private sector through credit market s continually declined according to  
the analysis based on the  new loan rate (Box: An analysis of monetary policy transmission 
based on the new loan rate ). Bond f inancing increased but still concentrated in some 
businesses. However , financing conditions in the bond market s tightened somewhat as 
external factors raised Thailand’s long-term government bond yields ( with maturity over five 
years). However, the Committee assessed that the impact on the private sector  was limited. 
Most businesses  in Thailand  that raise funds  in the bond markets usually issue short - to 
medium -term bonds ( with maturity  of 1-3 years) ; theirs  yields currently did not rise much and 
still remained below historical averages. In addition , the recent defaults of some corporate 
bonds issued by unrated companies (“unrated bonds”  caused  some difficulty  to other Monetary Policy Report March 2017   23 businesses in rolling over the bonds of  this type. Nonetheless, this had not significantly 
affect ed overall  financing abilities of the private sector in the bond market s.  
 Regarding the exchange rates, the Committee regarded uncertainties surround ing 
economic policy in the U.S. and political developments in Europe as factors making the baht 
appreciate against currencies of major trading partners and competitors. This was due to 
Thailand’s relatively stronger fundamentals and external positions. In the period ahead, capital 
flows and exchange rate s would face heightened volatility stemming from uncertainties on the 
timing and pace of policy rate hikes, especially by the Fed, and on monetary policy directions 
of major advanced economies. Therefore, ap propriate foreign exchange risk  management by 
the private sector would be critical going forward .  
Financial stability remained sound. However, there were pockets of risks that warranted  
close monitoring.  
 Under the Committee’s view, overall financial system remained sound with sufficient 
cushion against economic and financial volatilities on both domestic and external fronts. 
However, there remained pockets of risks that warranted close monitoring such as t he 
deterioration in SME and household debt repayment ability  and yield-searching behavior that 
might lead to underpricing of risk. The Committee would closely follow these developments 
going forward. Moreover, some committee members viewed that risks to fi nancial stability 
could rise in the future as a result of the low -for-long interest rate environment. Increased long -
term bond yields over the recent period also led firms  to raise  funds through short er-term 
instruments. This could lead to accumulation of risks in the financial system. Consequently , 
collaboration among relevant regulatory authorities would play a greater role in reducing risks 
and vulnerability in Thailand’s financial system.  
The Committee voted unanimously to maintain the policy rate at 1. 50 percent to allow 
monetary conditions to be accommodative and conducive to continuation of economic 
growth.  
 The Committee voted unanimously to maintain the policy rate at 1.50 percent at the 
meetings on February  8 and March 29. In deliberating their pol icy decision, the Committee 
assessed that Thailand’s growth outlook improved and headline inflation was expected to rise 
and approach  the midpoint of the target. However, considerable risks on the external  front 
remained, particularly those pertaining to t he fragile  global economic recovery and U.S.  trade 
policy which might restrain  the recovery of Thai exports. Moreover,  uncertainties regarding 
monetary policy directions of major advanced economies could  induce further capital flow and 
exchange rate volati lities. Thus, the Committee viewed that monetary policy should remain 
accommodative until economic recovery is more robust and stronger. This would also support 
inflation to return to the midpoint of the target. The Committee would stand ready to utilize a n 
appropriate mix of available policy tools in order to ensure that monetary conditions are 
conducive to economic growth, while ensuring financial stability.  
 
 
 
 Monetary Policy Report March 2017   24 An analysis of m onetary policy transmission  based on  the new loan rate  
 Understanding how the policy interest rate affects retail loan  rates is key to measuring 
the effectiveness of monetary policy  transmission . In the past, the Bank of Thailand used two key 
retail interest rates to evaluate the impact of monetary policy transmission : (1) the minimum lending 
rate (MLR), which is the rate at which commercial banks charge on high -quality and large -size 
customers, and (2) the effective lending rate (ELR), which is based on interest  payments  that banks 
receive from the borrowe rs. However,  both MLR and ELR have limitations . 
 (1) The MLR is a posted rate determined  by commercial banks. Although it generally moves in 
the same direction as the policy rate, actual interest rates on loans might be different than the MLR 
depending on credit risk premium that bank s assign particular borrower s. According to the data from 
commercial banks, many customers with good financial position are charged at rates lower than the 
MLR.    
 (2) The ELR is based on  interest payments  that commercial banks receive on all loans. This 
measure takes into account  (a) existing loan contracts that have not expired, (b) new loans , and (c) 
some loan contracts that were already default. Consequently, it does not reflect the impact of policy 
rate changes on the interest rates applied on new loans.  
  Based on analyses using the “new loan rate” (NLR 9/, calculated from a large database of loan 
arrangements (LAR)10/ with high granularity, transmission of policy interest rates to retail rates has 
been more than previously estimated using only the MLR or ELR.  In particular, the MLR and ELR 
are found to adjust only slowly relative to the policy rate given recent interest rate cuts. Meanwhile, the 
NLR has been more responsive to the change in the poli cy interest rate ( Chart  1). In addition, a 
regression11/ analysis reveals that, despite a slower response of the MLR and NLR to changes in the 
policy rate recently, the NLR is more responsive than the MLR at any given point in time (Chart 2). At 
present, a cut of policy interest rate by 1 percentage point corresponds to a drop of 0.46 percentage  
point  in the NLR and a decline  of only 0.33  percentage point  in the MLR.  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                           
9/ The NLR is calculated from interest payments  on loan contracts by 14 Thai commercial banks excluding loans 
to households and financial intermediaries and is  weighted by loan size.  
10/ LAR is a database of loans at the  loan contract level. The Bank of Thailand requires financial institutions to report 
the information at the end of every month since January 2004. Such financial institutions include (1) Thai 
commercial banks, subsidiaries of foreign commercial banks, and branches of foreign  commercial  banks with 
outstanding loans exceeding 20 million baht, (2) retail commercial banks and finance companies with outstanding 
loans exceeding  than 5 million baht, (3) credit foncier s with outstanding loans exceeding  than 1 million baht.  The 
LAR database currently covers 70% of total outstanding loans by commercial banks, which should be adequate 
for the  study of loans in Thailand . 
11/ The sensitivity of movement of interest rates to changes in the policy interest rate  is estimated from the following 
regression:  ∆𝑅= 𝑏0+ 𝑏1∆𝑅𝑃+ 𝑏2∆𝑅𝑃𝑡−1+ 𝑏3∆𝑅𝑃𝑡−2 where  R denotes MLR or NLR  and RP represents the 
policy interest rate. The response of MLR or NLR to the change in policy interest rate is calculated from 
b1+b2+b3. The study divides the analysis into two periods: (1) from 2003 to the first half of 2012, and (2) from 
the second half of 2012 to present. The results suggest a structural change in monetary policy transmission after 
the Great Flood.  
02468
Jan-04
Jan-05
Jan-06
Jan-07
Jan-08
Jan-09
Jan-10
Jan-11
Jan-12
Jan-13
Jan-14
Jan-15
Jan-16ELR
NLRMLR
Policy 
interest rateChart 1 NLR is more responsive to policy interest rate 
movement than the MLR and ELR
Source: The Bank of ThailandPolicy interest rate, MLR, ELR, NLR
%
0.54
0.460.48
0.33
00.30.6
2004 - 2012 H1 2012 H2 - presentNLR
MLRChart 2 NLR responses more quickly to the policy 
interest rate than the MLR at any given point in time
Changes of interest rates to changes in the policy rate ( ∆R /∆RP)
Source: The Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March 2017   25 4. Appendix  
4.1 Table  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thai Economy Dashboard
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2.9 3.23.1 3.6 3.2 3.0
Production
-5.7 0.6 -2.0 -0.4 0.9 3.2
3.9 3.5 3.7 3.9 3.2 3.1
Manufacturing 1.5 1.4 -0.2 2.2 1.6 2.1
Construction 17.0 8.3 11.9 9.9 5.2 6.1
Wholesales and retail trade 3.9 5.0 4.6 4.7 5.2 5.6
Hotels and restaurants 14.6 10.3 12.3 10.8 13.5 4.8
Transport, storage, and communication 5.1 5.5 6.4 4.2 6.5 5.1
Financial intermediation 8.8 6.2 5.9 6.2 5.8 6.7
Real estate, renting, and business activities 1.9 1.8 2.2 2.1 1.1 1.8
Domestic demand 2.9 2.7 4.4 3.5 0.9 2.2
Private consumption 2.2 3.1 2.8 4.0 3.0 2.5
Private investment -2.2 0.4 2.4 0.3 -0.8 -0.4
Government consumption 3.0 1.6 9.1 2.4 -5.2 1.5
Public investment 29.3 9.9 12.9 12.8 5.8 8.6
Imports of goods and services 0.0 -1.4 -5.2 -2.5 -1.1 3.4
imports of goods 0.2 -2.1 -7.6 -2.8 -1.5 3.6
imports of services -1.0 1.7 5.7 -1.3 0.5 2.1
Exports of goods and services 0.7 2.1 4.8 1.0 1.4 1.1
exports of goods -3.4 0.0 0.8 -1.9 -0.4 1.4
exports of services 17.1 9.3 18.1 11.6 7.7 0.4
Trade balance (million, U.S. dollars) 26,841 35,752 11,839 8,307 8,973 6,633
Current account (million, U.S. dollars) 32,149 46,412 17,852 8,391 10,380 9,789
Financial account (million, U.S. dollars) -17,102 -24,804 -300 -3,062 -9,096 -12,347
International reserves (billion, U.S. dollars) 157 172 175 179 180 172
Unemployment rate (%) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 0.9 1.0
Unemployment rate, seasonally-adjusted (%) n.a. n.a. 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.1
Source: Office of the National Economic and Social Development Board National Statistical Office and Bank of ThailandAgriculture
Non-agriculture
ExpenditurePercent 2014 20152016
GDP growth Monetary Policy Report March 2017   26  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan Feb
1. Financial market sector
1.1 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.1 1.1
SET index (end of period) 1,288.0 1,542.9 1,407.7 1,445.0 1,483.2 1,542.9 1,577.3 1,559.6
Actual volatility of SET index1/13.9 15.2 15.9 11.9 13.6 15.2 7.9 6.6
Price to Earnings ratio (P/E ratio) (times) 22.6 18.6 20.7 22.0 21.3 18.6 19.1 18.1
Exchange rate market
Actual volatility of Thai baht (%annualized )2/5.1 4.4 4.4 4.6 3.8 5.0 3.9 3.1
Nominal Effective Exchange Rate (NEER) 108.5 106.2 106.7 105.1 105.8 107.0 108.3 108.7
Real Effective Exchange Rate (REER) 104.4 100.5 100.8 100.0 100.3 100.7 101.8 n.a
2. Financial institution sector3/
Minimum Lending Rate (MLR )4/6.50 6.26 6.51 6.26 6.26 6.26 6.26 6.26
12-month fixed deposit rate4/1.40 1.38 1.40 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38 1.38
Capital adequacy
Capital funds / Risk-weighted asset (%) 17.4 18.0 17.5 17.5 18.5 18.0 n.a n.a
Earning and profitability
Net profit (billion, Thai baht) 192.3 199.2 51.2 50.9 49.8 47.4 n.a n.a
Return on assets (ROA) (times) 0.9 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.1 1.1 n.a n.a
Liquidity
Loan to Deposit and B/E (%) 97.0 96.3 94.8 96.4 96.9 96.3 n.a n.a
3. Household sector
Household debt to GDP (%) 81.2 n.a 80.6 80.3 80.0 79.9 n.a n.a
Financial assets to debt (times) 2.6 n.a 2.5 2.6 2.6 n.a n.a n.a
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Consumer loans 2.6 2.7 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.7 n.a n.a
Housing loans 2.4 2.9 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.9 n.a n.a
Auto leasing 2.3 1.8 2.1 1.9 1.8 1.8 n.a n.a
Credit cards 4.0 3.7 4.7 4.2 5.1 3.7 n.a n.a
Other personal loans 2.7 2.9 2.7 2.7 2.9 2.9 n.a n.a
4. Non-financial corporate sector5/
Operating profit margin (OPM) (%) 7.5 8.3 8.5 8.7 8.2 7.8 n.a n.a
Debt to Equity ratio (D/E ratio) (times) 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 n.a n.a
Interest coverage ratio (ICR) (times) 5.5 6.5 6.5 7.1 5.8 6.8 n.a n.a
Current ratio (times) 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.6 n.a n.a
Non-Performing Loans (NPLs) of commercial banks (%)
Large businesses 1.6 1.5 1.7 1.9 1.9 1.5 n.a n.a
SMEs 3.5 4.3 3.7 3.8 4.0 4.3 n.a n.a
Note:
1/ Calculated by 'annualized standard deviation of return ' method
2/ Daily volatility (using exponentially weighted moving average method )
3/ Based on data of all commercial banks
4/ Average value of 4 largest Thai commercial banks
5/ Only listed companies on Stock Exchange of Thailand (median value ); with data revisionsEquity market2017
Bond spread (10 years - 2 years )Indicators 2015 20162016
Bond marketMonetary Policy Report March 2017   27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Stability Dashboard (continue)
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan Feb
5. Real estate sector
Number of approved mortgages from commercial banks  (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 59,667     61,452     15,487   15,611   14,149   16,205   2,534 3,572
 Single-detached and semi-detached houses 13,152     13,409     3,511     3,503     3,216     3,179     538 821
 Townhouses and commercial buildings 19,210     20,187     5,092     5,410     4,718     4,967     873 1,317
 Condominiums 27,305     27,856     6,884     6,698     6,215     8,059     1,123 1,434
Number of new housing units launched for sale (Bangkok and Vicinity) (units)
Total 107,988   110,575   28,426   19,680   31,017   31,452   4,168    8,386   
Single-detached and semi-detached houses 17,637     19,433     5,033     3,099     6,328     4,973     145       1,048   
Townhouses and commercial buildings 27,518     32,792     7,591     6,702     10,638   7,861     1,005    5,304   
Condominiums 62,833     58,350     15,802   9,879     14,051   18,618   3,018    2,034   
Housing price index (2009 = 100)
Single-detached houses (including land) 129.0 130.8 129.4 133.7 131.3 128.8 129.2 128.1
Townhouses (including land) 135.9 137.6 138.8 139.1 136.8 135.6 136.7 137.7
Condominiums 158.7 166.2 160.0 162.1 169.2 173.6 170.6 172.3
Land 157.2 171.2 169.5 173.7 170.2 171.3 172.0 172.5
6. Fiscal sector
Public debt to GDP (%) 44.4 42.2 44.0 42.8 42.8 42.2 42.0 n.a
7. External sector
Current account balance to GDP (%)6/8.1 11.4 17.9 8.4 10.1 9.4 n.a. n.a.
External debt to GDP (%)7/32.1 32.5 34.3 35.4 34.5 32.5 n.a. n.a.
External debt (billion, U.S. dollars) 131.4 131.5 139.1 143.1 139.3 131.5 133.3 135.0
Short-term (%) 40.0 40.3 42.3 42.5 40.2 40.3 40.5 40.8
Long-term (%) 60.0 59.7 57.7 57.5 59.8 59.7 59.5 59.2
International reserves / Short-term external debt (times) 3.0 3.2 3.0 2.9 3.2 3.2 3.3 3.3
Note:
6/ Current account / Nominal GDP at the same quarter
7/ External debt / 3-year average nominal GDP2016 2017
Indicators 2015 2016Monetary Policy Report March 2017   28  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Table: Probability distribution of GDP growth forecast
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
10-12 0 0 0 1 1 1 2 2
8-10 0 0 2 4 4 4 5 6
6-8 1 4 9 13 13 12 12 13
4-6 18 22 24 24 22 21 20 19
2-4 49 36 30 25 24 23 22 21
0-2 28 26 21 19 19 19 18 17
(-2)-0 5 10 10 10 11 12 12 12
< (-2) 0 2 3 5 6 8 9 10
Table: Probability distribution of core inflation forecast
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
3.5-4.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
3.0-3.5 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 2
2.5-3.0 0 0 0 1 1 2 3 5
2.0-2.5 0 0 1 3 5 7 8 10
1.5-2.0 1 4 6 9 11 14 15 16
1.0-1.5 17 18 18 18 19 20 20 19
0.5-1.0 44 32 27 23 22 21 19 18
0.0-0.5 30 27 24 21 19 17 15 14
(-1)-0.0 7 14 15 14 12 11 10 9
(-2)-(-1) 1 4 6 7 6 6 5 4
< -2 0 1 2 3 3 2 2 2
Table: Probability distribution of headline inflation forecast
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
> 7 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1
6-7 0 0 0 0 1 2 1 1
5-6 0 0 1 2 2 4 4 4
4-5 0 0 3 5 6 9 9 8
3-4 3 2 8 11 12 15 15 14
2-3 20 10 17 17 18 19 19 18
1-2 39 23 24 21 20 19 19 18
0-1 28 29 22 19 18 14 15 15
(-1)-(0) 8 22 15 13 12 9 10 10
(-2)-(-1) 1 10 7 7 7 5 5 6
(-3)-(-2) 0 3 3 3 3 2 2 3
(-4)-(-3) 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
< (-4) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0Percent2017 2018Percent2017 2018
Percent2017 2018Monetary Policy Report March 2017   29 4.2 Data pack  
 
The Global Economy  
Advanced economies continued to recover on the back of gradual improvements in 
employment and domestic demand. China’s infrastructure investment increased but the 
overall growth could slow  down in the period ahead due to the government’s economic reform. 
Asian exports steadily improved, especially export s of electronics.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
45505560
       5    6     Euro area Japan U.S.Diffusion index
Source: Bloomberg and EurostatManufacturing Purchasing Manager Index
Feb
-2.00.02.04.06.08.0
                       5   6    United States Euro Area Japan China Asia*PercentInflation of Thailand’s major trading partners
Note: *Average of headline inflation in Indonesia, South Korea, 
Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Taiwan
Source : CEIC
Source: CEIC60708090100110120130
           5    6     Hong Kong Taiwan South Korea
Malaysia Singapore Indonesia
PhilippinesAsian exports
Seasonally adjusted index of export value (January 2013 = 100)
China’s economic indicators
(Change from the same period last year)
Source: CEIC01020304050
Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17Retail sales
Manufacturing
Total investment
Investment in manufacturing (32%)
Investment in real estate (23%)
Investment in structure (9%)Percent
Note: () denotes share to total investmentMonetary Policy Report March 2017   30 The Thai economy  
In the fourth quarter of 2016, the Thai economy continually recovered on the back of private 
consumption, public spending , and merchandise exports that rebounded and showed a more 
broad -based recovery. The number of international arrivals quickly recovered and would likely 
continue increasing.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-10-5051015
Q1
2015Q3 Q1
2016Q3Export of services Public spending
Private consumption Private investment
Export of goods Import of goods and services
Change in inventory GDPContribution to Thailand’s GDP growth1/ 
Note: 1/ Calculated by Chain Volume Measure method (CVM )
Source : Office of National Economic and Social Development Board, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand.Percent
Thai exports (excluding gold): value, price and quantity
(3-month moving average, sessionally adjusted; January 2013 = 100)
859095100105
Jan
2013Jul Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Value Price QuantityIndex
Source: Customs Department and Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand
050100150200250
Jan
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Asia (excluding China and Malaysia)
China
Malaysia
Europe (excluding Russia)
RussiaIndex of foreign tourists classified by nationality  
(3-month moving average, sessionally adjusted; January 2014 = 100)
Index
Source: Department of Tourism
Public spending by central government
6090120150180
Oct Jan Apr JulFY2015 FY2016 FY2017Current expenditure excluding transfers
Capital expenditure excluding transfersBillion baht
020406080
Oct Jan Apr JulBillion baht
Source: Bureau of Budget, Fiscal Policy OfficeMonetary Policy Report March 2017   31 Inflation  
Headline inflation increased and reached the lower bound of the  inflation target due mainly to 
higher energy prices. Meanwhile, core inflation slightly declined on account of  the high base 
due to tobacco price s. Medium -term inflation expectations  by professional economists stayed 
close to the midpoint of the target.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-20246
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Jan-Feb 
2017
Energy
Raw food
Core inflation (excluding raw food and energy)
Headline inflationContribution toheadline inflation
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, 
Ministry of Commerce, calculations by Bank of ThailandPercent
0123
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Jan-Feb 
2017Tobacco
Non-food and beverages (excluding tobacco)
Food and beverages
Core inflationPercent
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of ThailandContribution to core inflation
Percent change from previous month 
(3-month moving average, seasonally adjusted)
Note: Data point indicated in () where the first value is %MoM 
(sa, 3mma) as of November 2016 , while the second value is 
2004 -2014 average; Asymmetric trim excludes goods and 
services with most volatile price changes, removing the bottom 
10 percentile and the top 6 percentile; Principal component 
model calculates changes in common statistical components 
that attribute price movements across categories of goods 
and services.Underlying inflation indicators
Source: Bureau of Trade and Economic Indices, Ministry of Commerce, 
calculations by Bank of Thailand-0.10.00.10.20.30.40.5
Jan
2012Jul Jan
2013Jul Jan.
2014Jul Jan
2015Jul Jan
2016Jul Jan
2017Core inflation ex rent & government measures  (0.00, 0.14)
Asymmetric trim (0.12, 0.23)
Principal component model (0.03, 0.11)
02468
Jan
2007Jan
2008Jan
2009Jan
2010Jan
2011Jan
2012Jan
2013Jan
2014Jan
2015Jan
2016Jan
2017Inflation expectations by firms (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (1-year ahead)
Inflation expectations by professional economists (5-year ahead)
Inflation expectations based on model (5-year ahead)Inflation expectations
Percent change from same period last year
Source: 1/Business Sentiment Survey of Bank of Thailand (BSI)
2/ Asia Pacific Consensus Forecast
3/ Calculations based on macro -finance term structure model 
with bond yield and macroeconomic data1/
2/
2/
3/Monetary Policy Report March 2017   32 Financial and monetary conditions  
Government bond yields increased due to global factors. Corporate credits showed sign s of 
higher growth, especially loans  extended  to export -related businesses. The Thai baht 
appreciated against the U.S. dollar, consistent with movements of regional currencies.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.01.52.02.53.03.5
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10YThai government bond yields
Source: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)2016 2017
Total corporate financing by instruments*
Source: Bank of Thailand and Thai Bond Market Association (Thai BMA)-50-250255075100125150175
Jan
2015Mar May JulSep Nov Jan
2016Mar May JulSep Nov Jan
2017Credit Bond EquityBillion baht
Note: *Monthly change in outstanding of corporate loans (seasonally 
adjusted), corporate bond excluding commercial banks, and 
newly issued equities.
32
33
34
35
36
37 9095100105110115
Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct JanUSDTHB (RHS)Appreciation
NEER
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 28 March 2017 )DXYBaht per U.S. dollar IndexThe Thai baht vis -a-vis U.S. dollar (USDTHB), Nominal 
Effective Exchange Rate (NEER), and the Dollar Index (DXY)
2015 2016 2017
-2%0%2%4%6%8%10%
GBP
EUR
AUD
JPY
PHP
CNY
IDR
MYR
SGD
THB
INR
TWD
KRW
Source: Bank of Thailand and Reuters (data as of 28 March 2017 )Percent
Positive value indicates appreciation against the U.S. dollarCurrency movements vis -a-vis the U.S. dollar
(28 March 2017 compared to end -2016 )Monetary Policy Report March 2017   33 Stability: household sector  
The ratio of household debt to GDP continued to  trend down  recently albeit slowly . However, 
deterioration in debt repayment ability  warranted close monitoring.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
505560657075808590
Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4
               5    6Percent of GDP2/
Note:  1/ Loans to households by financial institutions
            2/ Calculated by averaging the 4 latest quarterly GDP
Source: Bank of Thailand79.9Household debt1/
3.4
-505101520
Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4Q1Q2Q3Q4
                   5    6Unclassified
Personal
Business
Credit card
Car
Mortgage
Growth of household debtContribution to growth of household debt
Note: 1/Loans given to households by financial institutions
Source: Bank of Thailand% YoY
1.02.03.04.05.06.0
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
                   5    6Home Car Credit card Personal Consumer
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loans (NPL) in consumer loans, 
classified by loan type
PercentMonetary Policy Report March 2017   34 Stability: corporate sector  
Overall stability in the corporate sector remained sound. However,  small enterprises  had yet 
to benefit from  the economic recovery, with  NPLs still  rising.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand456789
Q1 
2014Q2Q3Q4Q1 
2015Q2Q3Q4Q1 
2016Q2Q3Q4Operating Profit Margin (OPM) Return on Assets (ROA)Percent
Note: *Median estimates; ROA is returns to average assets. 
OPM is operating profits to total sales.7.8
6.8Operating Profit Margin (OPM) and Return on Assets (ROA)*
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.4
024681012
   5
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
   5
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
   5
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
   5
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
   5
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
   5
Q2/2016
Q4/2016
Quintile 1 Quintile 2 Quintile 3 Quintile 4 Quintile 5 TotalICR Percentile 50 D/E Percentile 50 (RHS)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of ThailandNote: Median estimates; Firms divided based on their asset size into 
5 quintiles from smallest to largest. Firms with ICR lower than 
1.5 and D/E over 2 warrant a close monitoring.Interest Coverage Ratio (ICR) and Debt to Equity (D/E) 
ratios, classified by firm size
Times Times
-10-8-6-4-2024
Q1
2014Q2
2014Q3
2014Q4
2014Q1
2015Q2
2015Q3
2015Q4
2015Q1
2016Q2
2016Q3
2016Q4
2016Smallest (Quintile 1)
Small (Quintile 2)
Medium (Quintile 3)
Large (Quintile 4)
Largest (Quintile 5)
Source: Stock Exchange of Thailand, calculation by Bank of Thailand
-10.0-5.00.05.010.0
Q1 
2014Q2 
2014Q3 
2014Q4 
2014Q1 
2015Q2 
2015Q3 
2015Q4 
2015Q1 
2016Q2 
2016Q3 
2016Q4 
2016Operating profit margin
-4.0-2.00.02.04.06.0
Q1
2014Q2
2014Q3
2014Q4
2014Q1
2015Q2
2015Q3
2015Q4
2015Q1
2016Q2
2016Q3
2016Q4
2016Return on asset
Interest coverage ratioTimesPercent PercentProfitability and debt serviceability at 25th percentile of 
each group of firm size
Share of special mentioned loan (SM)2.88
0123456
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016Total corporate loan large corporate loan SME loan
1.56Percent of total 
Source: Bank of ThailandShare of non -performing loan (NPL)
Q4
4.25
2.40
0123
Q1
2011Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
20162.342.46Loan quality of corporate sector
Percent of total Q4Monetary Policy Report March 2017   35 Stability: real estate sector  
Demand for residences steadied after the end of real estate stimulus  measures . Growth of the 
property sector  slowed down as excess supply in some areas remained high. Condominium  
prices  grew at a slower rate from last year, which was in line with land prices.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
34 
28 2.5
2.061 
4.6
0246810
020406080100
    
   5
   6
Jan 15
Feb 15
Mar 15
 Apr 15
May 15
Jun 15
Jul 15
Aug 15
Sep 15
Oct 15
Nov 15
Dec 15
Jan 16
Feb 16
Low-rise Condominium TotalResidential units in Bangkok and its vicinity with 
approved mortgages by commercial banks
Thousand units
Source: Bank of ThailandThousand units, 3-month moving average 
and seasonally adjusted
Yearly Monthly (RHS)
Average* 5,422
Note: *Average during 2010 -2016 , excluding periods with 
government’s stimulus measures (November 2015 -April 2016 )
46 45 5265 63 585.7 5.14.5 4.33.24.2 4.76.06.76.2
3.4
2.2111108111
10.311.1 11.2
10.5
6.66.4
024681012
020406080100120
       5   6 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16
Low-rise Condominium TotalNew residential projects launched in Bangkok and its vicinity
Thousand units Thousand unitsYearly Monthly (RHS)
Source: Agency for Real Estate Affairs (AREA), 
calculation by Bank of Thailand
128.1137.7172.3172.5
100110120130140150160170180190
2013Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2014Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2015Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
2016Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Jan-16
Feb-16Detached house with land
Town house with land
Condominium
LandReal estate price indices
Index ( 2009 =100)
Source: Bank of Thailand
024681012
Q1
2011     Q1
2012     Q1
2013      Q1
2014      Q1
2015      Q1
2016     Corporate loan for real estate and construction
Consumer loan for home
Source: Bank of Thailand4.6
2.92016 Q4Percent of total loanNon-performing loan (NPL)Monetary Policy Report March 2017   36 Stability : financial institutions  
Credit growth slowed down while loan quality continued to deteriorate. However,  the financial 
system remained sound with high levels of provisions and capital buffers.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit growth in the commercial bank system
13.9
4.3
2.4 2.013.2
3.1
1.10.610.3
-0.5
-2.0-1.114.3
5.63.21.815.7
7.1 5.2 4.9
-551525
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016
Total
Corporate
Large corporate (excluding financial business)
SME (excluding financial business)
Consumer%YoY
Source: Bank of Thailand
Non-performing loan (NPL)
2.65 2.552.89 2.83
1.941.611.94
1.473.98
3.504.044.35
2.07 2.562.732.71
012345
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016
Total NPL (%) Large corporate NPL (%)
SME NPL (%) Consumer NPL (%)%
Source: Bank of Thailand
Provisions in commercial bank system
131214302929
1922
19212122243249
34383837
32150.4161.6
159.6
100120140160180
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
20160102030405060
Loan loss provisions (RHS) Actual reserves/required reserves (LHS)Billion baht %
Source: Bank of Thailand
Capital buffers in commercial bank system
16.317.418.518.0
11.814.615.4 15.1
4.5
2.9 3.03.0
0510152025
Q1
2012Q1
2013Q1
2014Q1
2015Q1
2016%
Tier-1
Tier-2Capital Adequacy Ratio (CAR)
Source: Bank of ThailandMonetary Policy Report March 2017   37 Stability: External position  
Thailand’s external stability remained strong with ample liquidity and high debt repayment ability .  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stability: fiscal sector  
Fiscal stability remained sound , as reflected by the ratio of public debt to GDP that stayed 
below the fiscal sustainability  threshold.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Source: Bank of ThailandThailand’s external debt
020406080100120140160
0102030405060
    
    
    
    
    
    
2015Q1
2015Q2
2015Q3
2015Q4
2016Q1
2016Q2
2016Q3
2016Q4Long-term debt
Short-term debt
External debt to GDP
International benchmark of <48% external debt to GDP
Billion U.S. dollar Percent
Source: Bank of ThailandReserve to short -term debt
012345
   5
   6
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
   5
   6
 Jan 2017
 Feb 2017Feb2017 = 3.3Time
38.040.242.2 43.4 44.4 44.042.8 42.8 42.2 42.0
0102030405060
    
    
    
    
   5
Q1-16
Q2-16
Q3-16
Q4-16
 Jan 17Other government agencies  FIDF
Financial state-owned enterprises Non-financial state-owned enterprises
Advance borrowing for debt restructuring FIDF compensation
Public government’s direct borrowing Public debt to GDPPercent of GDP
Note: Calculated by GDP with Chain Volume Measure
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeThreshold for fiscal sustainability ( 60%)Public debt to GDP
External
5.3%
Domestic
94.7%Outstanding debt as of January 2017
Note: Share of short -term and long -term debt calculated from 
remaining duration until maturity
Source: Public Debt Management OfficeShort -term 
12.7%
Long -term 
87.3% 
